ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generations NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations. Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generations estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 was $182 million at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $330 million. Zion Station Decommissioning. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC. (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, under which ZionSolutions has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in 1998. On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions can periodically request reimbursement from the Zion Station related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning. Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities Generation operates various fossil, hydroelectric and renewable facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2010 and 2009, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generating facilities was 6% of Generations total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. John Deere Renewables. On December 9, 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million of which approximately $16 million has been recorded as a current liability and the remainder has been recorded as a noncurrent liability. As a result, total 8 Table of Contents consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Exelon Wind acquisition. Plant Retirements. On December 2, 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit, effective May 31, 2011. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 and Unit 2. These actions were in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. Subsequently, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades will be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those upgrades will be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of the units on the following schedule: Cromby Unit 1 and Eddystone Unit 1 on May 31, 2011; Cromby Unit 2 on December 31, 2011; and Eddystone Unit 2 on June 1, 2012. These dates are dependent upon the completion of required transmission reliability upgrades and may be subject to further change. Generation revised the depreciable useful lives for the affected units to reflect the revised deactivation dates. For more information regarding plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Licenses. Fossil and renewable generation plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009, Generation filed a Pre Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM or the New England control area administered by ISO NE, notice is required to be provided to PJM or ISO NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following long term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2010: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MW) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (a) Franklin, Georgia 2030 945 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC (b) Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 778 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 775 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Wolf Hollow Granbury, Texas 2023 350 Old Trail Windfarm, LLC McLean, Illinois 2026 198 Others (c) Various 2011 to 2028 491 Total 6,139 9 Table of Contents (a) Generation has sold its rights to 945 MW of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a PPA with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company for a 20 year period that began on June 1, 2010. (b) Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two thirds, of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc.. (c) Includes long term capacity contracts with seven counterparties. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2010 and estimated for 2011: Source of Electric Supply (a) 2010 2011 (Est.) Nuclear 140,010 139,375 Purchases non trading portfolio 21,062 18,055 Fossil, renewable and hydroelectric 10,717 11,253 Total supply 171,789 168,683 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its generating plants. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generations retail business requirements. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2015. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2012. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. Coal is procured primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. 10 Table of Contents Power Team Generations wholesale marketing and retail electric supplier operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs as part of its overall strategic plan, with objectives such as obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan, such as a financial swap with ComEd that is described below and runs into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2011 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70%, and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts, including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generations efforts. 11 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power Only Purchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2011 $ 291 $ 60 $ 1,632 $ 9 2012 274 17 758 9 2013 151 314 6 2014 147 149 2015 141 150 Thereafter 940 670 Total $ 1,944 $ 77 $ 3,673 $ 24 (a) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010, including certain capacity charges which are subject to plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEds load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. See ComEd Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Generation had a PPA with PECO under which Generation supplied PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through December 31, 2010. Generation supplied electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. As of January 1, 2011, PECO procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECOs load. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding PECOs competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process after 2010. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2011 are as follows: (in millions) Nuclear fuel (a) $ 1,025 Production plant 850 Uprates 475 Wind 225 Total $ 2,575 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant 12 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MW. Retail Electric Services Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier. At December 31, 2010, approximately 66,200 retail customers (primarily commercial and industrial customers), representing approximately 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without mark up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEds reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales are offset by equal amount of purchased power expense. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kW continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kW or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Beginning June 2010 ComEd had no fixed price generation supply service obligations for customers with demands of 100 400 kW. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices. 13 Table of Contents Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Beginning on January 1, 2007, ComEd procured 100% of energy to meet its load service requirements through ICC approved staggered SFCs with various suppliers, including Generation. Beginning in June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31, 2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate order with the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). The Court issued a decision on September 30, 2010, ruling against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEds petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. Subsequent to the Illinois Appellate Courts ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the ICC approved ComEds request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding. On June 30, 2010, ComEd requested ICC approval for an increase of $396 million, subsequently changed to $326 million, to its annual delivery services revenue requirement (2010 Rate Case) to allow ComEd to continue modernizing its electric delivery system and recover the costs of substantial investments made since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested rate increase also reflects increased costs, most notably pension and OPEB, since ComEds rates were last determined. The Courts September 30, 2010 ruling in connection with ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case makes it highly unlikely that the ICC would decide the post test year accumulated depreciation issue in ComEds favor in the 2010 Rate Case. ComEd estimates that its requested revenue requirement increase of $326 million could be reduced by approximately $85 million as a result of this adjustment. Certain parties have submitted testimony recommending significant reductions to ComEds requested increase as well as the write off of certain assets, most notably the regulatory asset associated with severance costs, which was approximately $74 million as of December 31, 2010. Management believes the regulatory asset is appropriate based on the ICCs orders in ComEds last two rate cases. The new electric distribution rates are expected to take effect no later than June 2011. ComEd cannot predict how much of the requested electric distribution rate increase the ICC may approve. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds rate case proceedings. Other. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEds case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the 14 Table of Contents utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not believe that during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2011 is $1,015 million which includes RTEP projects. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other aspects of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards. PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.8 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.8 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 490,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to deliver regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW. PECOs natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf. 15 Table of Contents Retail Electric Services PECOs retail electric sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric generation rates were capped through a transition period which ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a non bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. At December 31, 2010, PECOs stranded costs were fully recovered. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between PECOs actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates without markup through the GSA. Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. For the year ended December 31, 2010, less than 1% of PECOs residential and large commercial and industrial and 4% of its small commercial and industrial loads were purchased from alternative EGSs. The small percentage of customer load provided by an alternative EGS is due to the electric generation rate caps that were lower than current market prices throughout the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates. In preparation for the transition to market based competitive pricing, multiple alternative EGSs began marketing to customers in PECOs service territory. As of January 31, 2011, PECO believes that at least 10% of residential, 46% of small commercial and industrial and 86% of large commercial and industrial loads will be purchased from alternative EGSs. Beginning with January 2011 customer bills, PECO presented its electric supply Price to Compare, which will be updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs. PECOs average residential Price to Compare for the first three months of 2011 is 9.92 cents per kWh. Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact PECOs results of operations or financial position. PECOs cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all the customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for delivery service. PECO receives transmission revenue from PJM for customers that select an alternative EGS. Procurement Proceedings. Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECOs transition period and capped electric generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply for its customers is procured through a competitive process in accordance with its PAPUC approved DSP Program. During 2010, PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC approved bidders for its third and fourth competitive procurements of electric supply for default electric service commencing January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. As of December 31, 2010, including the previous competitive procurements completed in 2009 and 2010, the 2011 expected electric supply for all customer classes had been substantially procured. PECO will conduct five additional competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes during the term of its DSP Program. 16 Table of Contents Electric Distribution Rate Case. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. The electric distribution rate case settlement and the electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill in January 2011, above 2010 bills. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs Smart Meter Programs. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years, accelerate universal deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters from 15 years to 10 years and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million over the next three years. In total, over the next 10 years, PECO is planning to spend up to $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers. Energy Efficiency Programs. In February 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs EE&C plan, which was filed pursuant to Act 129s EE&C reduction targets. The approved four year plan totals more than $330 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. In September 2010, PECO filed revisions to the EE&C Plan previously approved in February 2010 that included adjustments to certain incentive levels and the addition of energy efficiency measures to the existing portfolio. These revisions do not impact the total spending or timely recovery under the approved EE&C plan. On January 27, 2011, the PAPUC unanimously approved PECOs EE&C Plan revisions. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without markup through the PGC. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2010, 39% of PECOs current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas distribution service provided to customers by 17 Table of Contents PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates. Procurement Proceedings. PECOs natural gas supply is provided through purchases from a number of suppliers. These purchases are primarily delivered under long term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECOs 2010 2011 heating season planned supplies. Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases. On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs natural gas distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million. The approved natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, including costs related to transmission system reliability upgrades due to Generations plant retirements, as discussed in Notes 14 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2011 is $450 million, which includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements. ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees. PJM is the ISO and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. 18 Table of Contents ComEds transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERCs order establishes the agreed upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis. As a result of PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission rate included in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff is a FERC approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for transmission service. PECOs 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement provided for recovery of PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges from default service customers, on a full and current basis through a rider. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services. Employees As of December 31, 2010, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,214 employees in the following companies, of which 8,550 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAagreements (c) Total EmployeesCovered by CBA TotalEmployees Generation 1,684 199 1,801 3,684 9,595 ComEd 3,495 3,495 5,692 PECO 1,258 1,258 2,423 Other (d) 86 27 113 1,504 Total 5,265 1,457 1,828 8,550 19,214 (a) A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 36 employees in ComEds System Services Group. (b) 1,258 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 199 employees. (c) During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally expire during 2012 except for the agreements at Clinton and Oyster Creek, which expire in 2013. Additionally, during 2009, a 5 year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. Also in 2010, a 3 year agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees. (d) Other includes shared services employees at BSC. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and 19 Table of Contents Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelons strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and Exelon Transmission Company. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act (Clean Water Act), NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The CERCLA, as amended, provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. 20 Table of Contents Environmental Remediation ComEd and PECOs environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECOs 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011. The amount to be expended in 2011 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $23 million, consisting of $17 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the proposed Transport Rule, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from fossil generating stations, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2010. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, wind and hydroelectric), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel fired generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions. However, only approximately 6% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, 21 Table of Contents sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change. Climate Change Regulation. Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels. International Climate Change Regulation. At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali, Indonesia, the Bali Action Plan was adopted, which identifies a work group, process and timeline for the consideration of possible post 2012 international actions to further address climate change. In December 2009, the United States agreed to the non binding Copenhagen Accord at the conclusion of the 15th Conference of the Parties under the UNFCCC. Under the Copenhagen Accord, the United States agreed to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions. The Conference of the Parties met in Mexico in December 2010 and while some progress was made in the Cancun Agreement, the fundamental issues around GHG emission reductions and a successor to the Kyoto Protocol remain unresolved. The next Conference of the Parties meeting will be held in December 2011 in South Africa. Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or procure emission allowances or credits. Numerous bills were introduced in Congress during the 111th Congress that address climate change from different perspectives, including direct regulation of GHG emissions and the establishment of Federal Renewable Portfolio Standards, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Exelon supports the enactment, through Federal legislation, of a cap and trade program for GHG emissions that is mandatory, economy wide and designed in a way to limit potential harm to the economy and protect consumers. Exelon believes that any mechanism for allocation of GHG emission allowances should include significant free grants of allowances to electric (and potentially gas) distribution companies to help offset the cost impact of GHG regulation to the end use consumer. Over the last few years, Exelon has worked with other businesses and environmental organizations that participate in the United States Climate Action Partnership to support the development of an integrated package of recommendations for the Federal government to address the climate change issue through Federal legislation, including aggressive emission reduction targets for total U.S. emissions and robust cost containment measures to ensure that program costs are reasonable. In reaction to the U.S. EPAs proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. The issue of GHG regulation of stationary sources will likely be addressed either under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act by U.S. EPA regulation, or by new and comprehensive Federal 22 Table of Contents legislation. The Obama administration and the U.S. EPA have stated a preference for addressing the issue through Federal legislation. The extent to which GHG emissions will be regulated is currently unknown; however, potential regulation of GHG emissions from stationary sources could cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance. Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an inter state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations. At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission inventory and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment in 2005 under the U.S. EPAs Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by reducing its carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. In 2010, Exelon announced that it had achieved just over 50% of the annual Exelon 2020 goal. The planned retirement of fossil units, Cromby Units 1 and 2 and Eddystone Unit 1 in 2011 and Eddystone Unit 2 in 2012, will further contribute to fully achieving the goal. The early retirement of Oyster Creek may result in increased generation from fossil generating plants in the PJM RTO, which could result in increased GHG emissions under Exelon 2020 through reverse displacement. The current plan for achieving the Exelon 2020 goal accounts for these events. 23 Table of Contents Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds Smart Ideas portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant awards. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelons emissions reduction efforts will position the company to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal climate policy, Exelon 2020 has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business strategy. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Thirty three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The AEPS Act is effective for PECO beginning in 2011, following the expiration of PECOs transition period. During 2011, PECO will be required to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing by products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification 24 Table of Contents technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to prepare for the first year of required compliance, PECO procured and banked AECs in accordance with their PAPUC approved plan over the past three years. PECO has entered into five year agreements and ten year agreements with accepted bidders, including Generation, to purchase annually 452,000 non solar and 8,000 solar Tier 1 AECs, respectively. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts. In November 2010, PECO filed a petition with the PAPUC for approval to procure Tier II AECs to satisfy PECOs compliance requirements for the AEPS reporting years ending 2011 and 2012. Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generations retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in IL and PA from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 10, 2011 Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 65 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Exelon 2004 2008 President, Generation 2007 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Clark, Frank M. 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present OBrien, Denis P. 50 Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 56 President, Exelon Business Services Company 2005 Present Executive Vice President, Exelon 2008 Present Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon 2010 Present Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2002 2008 25 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Von Hoene Jr., William A. 57 Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon 2009 Present Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2006 2008 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon & Generation 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Principal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO 2005 2006 Vice President, ComEd 2004 2006 Cornew, Kenneth W. 45 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team 2003 2006 Dominguez, Joseph 47 Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Pramaggiore, Anne R. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Bradford, Darryl M. 55 Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2010 Present General Counsel, ComEd 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, ComEd 2007 2009 Vice President, ComEd 2005 2006 26 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period DesParte, Duane M. 47 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2008 Present Vice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2008 Vice President, Business Operations, ComEd; Vice President, Business Operations, PECO 2004 2006 Generation Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 65 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Pardee, Charles G. 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2010 Present President, Exelon Nuclear 2008 2010 Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2008 Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2005 2007 Cornew, Kenneth W. 45 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team 2003 2006 Pacilio, Michael J. 50 President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2010 Present Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Mid West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 Garg, Sunil 44 Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 2010 Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 27 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Dominguez, Joseph 47 Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Treasurer, Exelon and Generation 2011 Present Principal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO 2005 2006 Vice President, ComEd 2004 2006 Galvanoni, Matthew R. 38 Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 Present Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon 2006 ComEd Name Age Position Period Clark, Frank M. 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present Pramaggiore, Anne R. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Hooker, John T. 62 Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd 2005 2008 28 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Donnelly, Terence R. 50 Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd 2007 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2004 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2005 2006 Trpik Jr., Joseph R. 41 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon 2004 2009 Assistant Controller, ComEd 2004 2006 Marquez Jr., Fidel 49 Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd 2007 2009 Vice President of External Affairs, Chicago Operations, ComEd 2004 2006 ONeill, Thomas S. 48 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation;Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon 2009 2009 Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation 2007 2009 Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 Anthony, J. Tyler 46 Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd 2010 Present Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2007 2010 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2007 2007 Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation 2006 2007 Vice President, Project Management, Exelon Nuclear 2004 2006 Waden, Kevin J. 39 Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd 2009 Present Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery 2003 2007 29 Table of Contents PECO Name Age Position Period OBrien, Denis P. 50 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Adams, Craig L. 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Barnett, Phillip S. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon 2005 2007 Bonney, Paul R. 52 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO 2009 Present General Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO 2007 2009 Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company 2001 2007 Diaz Jr., Romulo L. 64 Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO 2009 Present Associate General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia 2005 2008 Acevedo, Jorge A. 39 Vice President and Controller, PECO 2009 Present Assistant Treasurer, PECO 2010 Present Assistant Controller, Generation 2007 2009 Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation 2003 2007 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond each Registrants control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the Risk Oversight and Audit Committees of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. In addition, the Exelon Board of Directors Generation Oversight and Energy Delivery Oversight Committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect its performance or financial condition. The Registrants most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generations position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the 30 Table of Contents largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants major risks fall primarily under the following categories: Market and Financial Risks. Exelons and Generations market and financial risks include the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Registrants regulatory and legislative risks include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelons and Generations financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generations ability to sell power into the competitive wholesale power markets at market based prices. In addition, potential regulation and legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Operational Risks. The Registrants operational risks include those risks inherent in running the nations largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelons ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation hedges the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls through long term power purchase agreements. Absent any hedging activity through long term, fixed price transactions, Generation would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices in the markets in which its assets are located, which would mean that Generations cash flows would vary accordingly. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, and, therefore, the market price of power will reflect the market price of the marginal fuel. As such, changes in the market price of fossil fuels will cause comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affect the its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind 31 Table of Contents and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poorer than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity. If this continues, it could adversely affect the Registrants ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. A slow recovery could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could also adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control and may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets remain evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generations business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generations NDTs and Exelons employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generations nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated 32 Table of Contents with Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets can adversely affect the Registrants ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. In addition, the credit facilities for Exelon, Generation and PECO largely expire in October 2012. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities, approximately $6.4 billion, in the first half of 2011. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. The Registrants may choose to establish cost effective alternative liquidity sources as appropriate. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of its trading counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations trading business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of trading positions, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEds financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECOs operating agreement with PJM and its power and natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECOs collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current regulatory environments in Illinois and Pennsylvania become less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the applicable state or adopting other measures to mitigate higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if either companys financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. 34 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd or PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants cash flows. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generations asset based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generations financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with ComEd, PECO and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions and for the IRS to withdraw its assertion of a $110 million substantial understatement penalty related to the involuntary conversion position. However, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement on the like kind exchange position. Exelon expects to initiate litigation on this matter during the second half of 2011. If the IRS is successful in its challenge to the like kind exchange position, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2010, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $830 million, excluding penalties. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, Exelons and ComEds results of operations could also be negatively impacted by up to $230 million (after tax) related to interest expense. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the like kind exchange position, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after tax charge of $86 million to Exelons and ComEds results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of the like kind exchange matter are unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 36 Table of Contents Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEds current procurement plan includes purchasing power through contracted suppliers and the spot market. PECO began procuring power at market based rates through contracted suppliers and the spot market on January 1, 2011 following the end of its transition period. ComEds and PECOs costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. For PECO, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas can result in declines in customer usage, lower electric transmission and distribution revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for ComEd and PECO as well as lower gas distribution revenues for PECO. Also, ComEds and PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. In addition to increased purchased power charges for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, the impact of economic downturns on ComEd and PECOs customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations on residential service terminations may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further discussion of the Registrants credit risk. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Generations operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, 37 Table of Contents limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought like conditions can impact Generations ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Certain long lived assets recorded on the Registrants statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Long lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants statement of financial position. Specifically, long lived assets account for 57%, 48%, 58% and 63% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The Registrants evaluate for impairment the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used whenever indications of impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the long lived asset through a non cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases extending through 2028 2032. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these leased assets to determine whether any indications of impairment exist. In determining the estimate of residual value, the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. An impairment would require Exelon to reduce the value of its investment in the plants through a non cash charge to expense. Such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons results of operations. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2010 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. Adverse regulatory actions or a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position in combination with changes in significant assumptions used in estimating ComEds fair value (e.g., discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt) could result in an impairment. Such an impairment would result in a non cash charge to expense, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Notes 5 and 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long lived asset and goodwill impairments. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation and in other internal transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. The Registrants 38 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See Item 1 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Registrants potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Due to its significant contractual agreements with ComEd, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds continued payments under these procurement contracts and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. A default by ComEd under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers where Generation serves load can switch from their respective energy delivery company to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of an electric distribution companies default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from its retail load serving counterparties than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more customers switch than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse regulatory and legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelons and Generations operating results and 39 Table of Contents cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelons, ComEds and PECOs operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on their ability to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power to their customers. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions impacting the Registrants businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low carbon nuclear assets. However, regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high because the competitive model is not working, and are therefore facing calls for some form of re regulation or some other means of reducing wholesale market prices. As the energy markets continue to mature, a low number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings may also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes have expired, is expected to continue in 2011. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives. Approximately 80% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJMs, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures, such as the New Jersey Capacity Legislation enacted into law on January 28, 2011 and other states seeking to enact similar programs, and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about the costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. In addition, FERCs application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERCs tests for market based rates. Since Order 697 became 40 Table of Contents final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generations authority to sell at market based rates and none denying that authority. Generations next submission seeking reauthorization to sell at market based rates was filed on December 30, 2010 for the PJM region. In its filing, Generation submitted studies showing that it continues to satisfy the tests required by Order 697. Should FERC take a more stringent tack with respect to Order 697 applications, it is possible that Generations authority to sell at market based rates could be in doubt. Generation, however, currently expects that FERC will approve its pending application. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd Frank Act was enacted into law. Dodd Frank calls for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the SEC and the Federal Reserve to regulate the market for over the counter (OTC) derivative products. Currently, rulemakings are pending at these agencies, the product of which will be rules that implement the mandates in Dodd Frank to eliminate the risk of systemic failure of financial markets. The significance of the effect on Generation will depend in part on whether it is determined to be a swap dealer or a qualifying end user, based on the meaning of those terms established in the final rules. If Generation is deemed a swap dealer, it will be required execute bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This could require Generation to tie up substantial additional capital in order to satisfy exchange based margin requirements. Even if Generation is not deemed a swap dealer, the rules could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. As Generations hedging program relies heavily on its ability to trade actively in the current bilateral OTC derivatives market, the effect of the new rules could significantly impede Generations ability to meet its hedge targets. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operation, cash flows or financial position. Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in 41 Table of Contents which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies is one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of Section 316(b), which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. On December 8, 2010, pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP regarding the application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to Oyster Creek, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. 42 Table of Contents In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in its service area who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on appeals in connection with ComEds 2007 Illinois electric distribution rate case. Federal or additional state RPS and or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Uncertainties exist as to the construction of new transmission facilities, their cost and how those costs will be allocated to transmission system participants and customers. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2010, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their 43 Table of Contents businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2010, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.8 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $534 million (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record the same amount of extraordinary gain and charge related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Further, Exelon would record a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $2.7 billion and $45 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEds goodwill, respectively. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in ITEM 8 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PECO as operator of a natural gas distribution system is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. 44 Table of Contents The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants results of operations. Operational Risks The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon does not know the impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. As owner operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, Exelon faces a risk that its operations would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. Further, the physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of the Registrants operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Exelons and Generations continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Exelon would be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. 45 Table of Contents Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to committed third party sales, including ComEd and PECO. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 26 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 26 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 60 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generations ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Furthermore, under its contract with the DOE, Generation would be required to pay the DOE a one time SNF storage fee including interest of approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2010, prior to the first delivery of SNF. Generation currently estimates 2020 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the spent nuclear fuel obligation. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license period. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. 46 Table of Contents Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generations results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of their operations, could have effects on transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. As of January 1, 2011, the required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. 47 Table of Contents Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations two units that have been retired) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation were unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed license of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. 48 Table of Contents ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize ComEd and PECOs ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants face information security risks as the owner operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A security breach of the Registrants information systems could impact the reliability of the generation fleet and or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. 49 Table of Contents The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC or state public utility commission regulations may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2010: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,067 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,751 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,286 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,289 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 (e) Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50 Uranium Base load 1,148 (f) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75 Uranium Base load 1,345 (f) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 1,003 (f) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 17,047 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (f) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 (g) Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 (g) Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 (g) Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (f) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (f) 4,734 50 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 391 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,442 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric and Renewable (h) AgriWind Bureau Co., IL 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) Blue Breezes Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 3 Bluegrass Ridge Gentry Co., MO 27 99 Wind Base load 56 (f) Brewster Jackson Co., MN 6 94 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) Cassia Twin Falls Co., ID 14 Wind Base load 29 Cisco Jackson Co., MN 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) City Solar Chicago, IL n.a. Solar Base load 10 Conception Nodaway Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Cow Branch Atchinson Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Cowell Pipestone Co., MN 1 99 Wind Base load 2 (f) CP Windfarm Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 4 Echo 1 Umatilla Co., OR 21 99 Wind Base load 34 (f) Echo 2 Morrow Co., OR 10 Wind Base load 20 Echo 3 Morrow Co., OR 6 99 Wind Base load 10 (f) Ewington Jackson Co., MN 10 99 Wind Base load 20 (f) Greensburg Kiowa Co., KS 10 Wind Base load 13 Harvest Huron Co., MI 32 Wind Base load 53 High Plains Moore Co., TX 8 99.5 Wind Base load 10 (f) Exelon Wind 1 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 2 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 3 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 4 Hansford Co., TX 38 Wind Base load 80 Exelon Wind 5 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 6 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 7 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 8 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 51 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Exelon Wind 9 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 10 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 11 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Loess Hills Atchinson Co., MO 4 Wind Base load 5 Marshall Lyon Co., MN 9 98 99 Wind Base load 19 Michigan Wind Bingham Twp., MI 46 Wind Base load 69 Mountain Home Elmore Co., ID 20 Wind Base load 40 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 Norgaard Lincoln Co., MN 7 99 Wind Base load 9 Threemile Canyon Morrow Co., OR 6 Wind Base load 10 Tuana Springs Twin Falls Co., ID 8 Wind Base load 17 Wolf Nobles Co., MN 5 99 Wind Base load 6 2,383 Total 25,619 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of lower efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines and diesels normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) On December 8, 2010, Generation announced that it will permanently cease generation operation at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (g) On December 2, 2009, Generation announced its intention to permanently retire Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Includes Exelon Wind assets acquired on December 9, 2010. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, transmission congestion, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies or generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. 52 Table of Contents Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,634 138,000 2,241 ComEds electric distribution system includes 35,734 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,118 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds First Mortgage Bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a significant portion of its transmission lines are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs high voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 200 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,983 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,828 cable miles of underground lines. 53 Table of Contents Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2010: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,716 Service piping 5,801 Total 12,548 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 31 natural gas city gate stations and direct pipeline customer delivery points at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. 54 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2011, there were 661,862,913 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 130,323 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 44.49 $ 43.32 $ 45.10 $ 49.88 $ 51.98 $ 54.47 $ 51.46 $ 58.98 Low price 39.05 37.63 37.24 42.97 45.90 47.30 44.24 38.41 Close 41.64 42.58 37.97 43.81 48.87 49.62 50.12 45.39 Dividends 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 55 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2006 through 2010. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2005 in Exelon common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2011, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2011, there were 127,016,519 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 31, 2011, in addition to Exelon, there were 251 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 56 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2011, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing III that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred securities. At December 31, 2010, such capital was $2.9 billion and amounted to about 33 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred securities of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had retained earnings of $9,304 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,633 million, ComEds retained earnings of $331 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,970 million, partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficits, and PECOs retained earnings of $522 million. 57 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2010 2009 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 885 $ 206 $ 156 $ 261 $ 475 $ 1,126 $ 396 $ 279 ComEd 85 75 75 75 60 60 60 60 PECO 46 63 51 64 65 93 67 87 On January 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2011, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2011. 58 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,644 $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ 15,655 Operating income 4,726 4,750 5,299 4,668 3,521 Income from continuing operations $ 2,563 $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ 1,590 Income from discontinued operations 1 20 10 2 Net income (a) $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1,592 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 $ 2.35 Income from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 Net income $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 2.35 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 $ 1.60 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 663 662 662 676 676 (a) The year 2006 reflects the impact of a goodwill impairment charge of $776 million. December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) 2006 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 6,398 $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 $ 4,130 Property, plant and equipment, net 29,941 27,341 25,813 24,153 22,775 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,140 4,872 5,940 5,133 5,808 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 Other deferred debits and other assets 9,136 8,901 8,038 8,760 7,933 Total assets $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 Current liabilities $ 4,240 $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 $ 4,871 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,004 11,385 12,592 11,965 11,911 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,555 3,492 2,520 3,301 3,025 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 18,791 17,338 17,489 14,131 13,439 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Noncontrolling interest 3 Shareholders equity 13,560 12,640 11,047 10,137 10,007 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 (a) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. (b) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 59 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 9,143 Operating income 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 2,396 Income from continuing operations 1,972 2,122 2,258 2,025 1,403 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 4 4 Net income $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 1,407 December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a,b) 2006 (a,b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 $ 2,571 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 7,514 Deferred debits and other assets 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 7,845 Total assets $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 Current liabilities $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 $ 1,990 Long term debt 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 1,778 Deferred credits and other liabilities 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 8,678 Noncontrolling interest 5 2 1 1 1 Members equity 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 5,483 Total liabilities and members equity $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 60 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 6,101 Operating income 1,056 843 667 512 555 Net income (loss) (a) 337 374 201 165 (112 ) (a) The year 2006 reflects the impact of a goodwill impairment charge of $776 million. December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 $ 1,007 Property, plant and equipment, net 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 10,457 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 Noncurrent regulatory assets 947 1,096 858 503 532 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 3,084 Total assets $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 Current liabilities $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 $ 1,600 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 4,133 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 2,824 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 2,919 Shareholders equity 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 6,298 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 61 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ 5,168 Operating income 661 697 699 947 866 Net income 324 353 325 507 441 Net income on common stock 320 349 321 503 437 December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 $ 762 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 4,651 Noncurrent regulatory assets 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 3,896 Other deferred debits and other assets 727 882 679 895 464 Total assets $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 Current liabilities $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 $ 978 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 3,784 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 418 317 49 250 151 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 3,051 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 1,722 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 62 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,563 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $2,707 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.87 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $4.09 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure as discussed below, increased by $172 million primarily due to increased revenues of $201 million at Generation largely related to favorable capacity pricing in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions. Exelons results were also affected by the impact of favorable weather conditions of $168 million in the ComEd and PECO service territories and a decrease in costs of $84 million associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation, primarily at Generation. Further, revenues at the utility companies increased by $92 million to recover the costs of regulatory required programs, which are offset in operating expenses, and ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million from customers associated with its uncollectible accounts rider mechanism. Offsetting these favorable impacts were unfavorable market and portfolio conditions of $174 million, increased nuclear fuel costs of $115 million, a reduction of $95 million in mark to market gains from Generations hedging activities in 2010 compared to 2009 and a $57 million impairment of SO2 emissions allowances related to the U.S. EPAs proposed Transport Rule. 63 Table of Contents Operating and maintenance expense decreased by $75 million primarily due to the impact of 2009 activities, including the $223 million impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations in 2009 and reduced stock compensation costs in 2010 of $40 million across the operating companies. Decreased operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by higher costs at the utility companies associated with regulatory required programs of $84 million, which are offset in revenue net of purchased power expense, a 2009 reduction in Generations ARO of $51 million and incremental costs of $42 million related to storms in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $241 million primarily due to increased depreciation expense of $144 million related to ongoing capital expenditures and the change in estimated useful lives associated with the plants subject to shutdowns announced in December 2009 and a scheduled increase in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $98 million in connection with the end of the transition period in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Exelons results were also significantly affected by $120 million in 2009 expenses related to debt extinguishment costs resulting from a 2009 debt refinancing, and by lower net NDT gains of $102 million in 2010 for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of less favorable market performance. Exelon results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were negatively affected by certain income tax related matters. Exelon recorded a non cash charge of $65 million (after tax) in 2010 and a non cash gain of $66 million (after tax) in 2009 for the remeasurement of income tax uncertainties. Exelon also recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,723 million, or $4.12 per diluted share, for the same period in 2009. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 64 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) Earningsper DilutedShare Earningsper DilutedShare Net Income $ 2,563 $ 3.87 $ 2,707 $ 4.09 Illinois Settlement Legislation (a) 13 0.02 66 0.10 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (b) (52 ) (0.08 ) (110 ) (0.16 ) Unrealized Gains Related to NDT Fund Investments (c) (52 ) (0.08 ) (132 ) (0.19 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (d) 50 0.08 34 0.05 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (e) 35 0.05 John Deere Renewables, LLC Acquisition Costs (f) 7 0.01 Asset Retirement Obligation Reduction (g) (7 ) (0.01 ) (32 ) (0.05 ) NRG Energy, Inc. Acquisition Costs (h) 20 0.03 2009 Restructuring Charges (i) 22 0.03 Costs Associated with Early Debt Retirements (j) 74 0.11 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (k) 2 5 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (l) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (m) 65 0.10 (66 ) (0.10 ) Impairment of Certain Generating Assets (n) 135 0.20 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,689 $ 4.06 $ 2,723 $ 4.12 (a) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million and $42 million, respectively). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (b) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $(34) million and $(71) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. (c) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(41) million and $(95) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (d) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation, inventory write downs and severance costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with the planned retirement of four fossil generating units (net of taxes of $32 million and $22 million, respectively). See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (e) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in the third quarter of 2010 as a result of declining market prices since the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with Exelons acquisition of John Deere Renewables, LLC (net of taxes of $4 million) now known as Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in December 31, 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million) and the annual update of Generations decommissioning obligation in 2009 (net of taxes of $(20) million). (h) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2009, associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc., which was terminated in July 2009 (net of taxes of $14 million). (i) Reflects the impact in 2009 of the elimination of management and staff positions (net of taxes of $(14) million). (j) Reflects costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 associated with early debt retirements at Generation and Exelon Corporate (net of taxes of $47 million). 65 Table of Contents (k) Reflects costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1 million and $3 million, respectively). (l) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (m) Reflects the impacts of 2009 and 2010 remeasurements of income tax uncertainties and a 2009 change in state deferred income tax rates (net of taxes on interest expense of $41 million and $23 million). See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. (n) Reflects the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded during the first quarter of 2009 (net of taxes of $87 million). See Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to asset impairments. Outlook for 2011 and Beyond. Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the proposed U.S. EPA Transport Rule and the New Jersey capacity legislation. See Environmental Matters and Regulatory and Legislative Matters sections below for further detail on the Transport Rule and New Jersey capacity legislation, respectively. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place downward pressure on natural gas prices and therefore on wholesale power prices, which would mean a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poorer than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity, and ComEd and PECO are projecting load demand to remain flat in 2011 compared to 2010. Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Although Exelons hedging policies have helped protect Exelons earnings as wholesale market prices have declined, sustained increases in natural gas supply and reserve levels, or a slow recovery of the economy, could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices and in long term sluggish growth in demand. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2011 and 2012. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of 66 Table of Contents expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 will likely result in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA, however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure to commodity price risk through the recovery of procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. During 2009, Generation announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that will result in between 1,300 and 1,500 MW of additional generation capacity within eight years. The uprate projects represent a total investment of approximately $3.65 billion in overnight cost, as measured in 2010 dollars. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 60% of the planned uprate MW, are underway at the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remainder will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2011 and ending in 2017. At 1,500 nuclear generated MW, the uprates would displace 8 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. As part of this periodic review process, the uprate project at Three Mile Island is currently under evaluation. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power 67 Table of Contents increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2010, Generation had added 101 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program, with another 98 MWs scheduled to be added in 2011. Acquisition of John Deere Renewables. On December 9, 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million of which approximately $16 million has been recorded as a current liability and the remainder has been recorded as a noncurrent liability. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. Generation also has the opportunity to pursue approximately 1,200 MWs of new wind projects that are in various stages of development. On September 30, 2010, Generation issued $900 million of senior notes whose proceeds were used to fund the acquisition. The acquisition provides incremental earnings starting in 2012 and cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) have signed a non binding memorandum of understanding to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. The Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. ComEd is expected to lead the building of the Illinois portion of the project. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. These costs are expected to be funded by ComEd, Exelon or an affiliate, ETA and AEP. The ultimate cost of the line will be dependent on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Advanced Metering Infrastructure. On April 22, 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers over the next 10 years. On April 12, 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum allowable grant under the program, for its SGIG project, Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. The SGIG project has a budget of more than $400 million and includes approximately $7 million related to demonstration projects by two sub recipients. In total, over the next ten years, PECO is planning to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. During 2010, PECO entered into agreements for an AMI network, AMI systems, installation of the first 600,000 meters, and procurement of meters and fiber cable. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE will be used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program under the Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers. The one year program was operational in June 2010. The total anticipated cost of the pilot program is approximately 68 Table of Contents $69 million. The AMI pilot program allows ComEd to study the costs and benefits related to automated metering and to develop the cost estimate of potential full system wide implementation of AMI. In addition, the program allows customers the ability to manage energy use, improve energy efficiency and lower energy bills. Due to an adverse September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court decision, ComEd faces certain cost recovery issues in connection with the pilot program. See Regulatory and Legislative Matters below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on cost recovery issues related to ComEds AMI pilot program. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. As a result of accelerated cash benefits associated with the Tax Relief Act of 2010, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of these contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon expects the $2.1 billion contribution, along with other factors, will increase the pension funded status from 71% at December 31, 2010 to 89% at December 31, 2011, subject to actual 2011 asset returns and final actuarial valuations. The $2.1 billion pension contribution will also decrease 2011 pension costs. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the recent Federal tax legislation allowing for accelerated depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 25, 2010, ComEd replaced its $952 million credit facility with a similar $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that extends to March 25, 2013. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facility, the new facility has higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. Exelons, Generations, and PECOs primary credit facilities largely extend through October 2012. These credit facilities currently provide sufficient liquidity to each of the Registrants. Upon maturity of these credit facilities, Exelon, Generation and PECO may not be able to renew or replace these existing facilities at current terms or commitment levels from banks. Consequently, Exelon, Generation, and PECO may face increased costs for liquidity needs in 2011 and may choose to establish cost effective alternative liquidity sources as appropriate. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities, approximately $6.4 billion, in the first half of 2011. On November 4, 2010, Generation entered into a supplemental credit facility, which provides for an aggregate commitment of up to $300 million. The effectiveness and availability of the credit facility were subject to various conditions, which were satisfied on February 7, 2011. This facility will be primarily used to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this credit facility. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. 69 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. In addition, Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, which includes a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress during the 111th Congress, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. In reaction to the U.S. EPAs proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Air. On July 6, 2010, the U.S. EPA published its proposed Transport Rule, which is the first of a number of significant regulations that the U.S. EPA expects to issue that will impose more stringent requirements relating to air, water and waste controls on electric generating units. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low carbon generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the proposed Transport Rule regulations will increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Exelon filed comments with the U.S. EPA in support of the proposed Transport Rule on October 1, 2010. Extensive comments were filed by the public, both in support of and in opposition to the proposed Transport Rule. The U.S. EPA is reviewing the comments and is scheduled to issue a final rule by the end of the year, to become effective in January 2012. Beginning with the proposed Transport Rule, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals) The U.S. EPA has announced that it will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2011 2012 timeframe for ozone (nitrogen oxide and volatile organic chemicals), particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and lead. This review could result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fired electric generating stations. The U.S. EPA is also preparing a proposed rule for a new HAP standard for electric generating units, which is expected to be finalized in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to install wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became 70 Table of Contents effective on January 2, 2011, and proposed GHG emissions limitations under the New Source Performance Standards scheduled for finalization in May 2012 pursuant to a litigation settlement. Water. Following legal challenges to the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, the rule has been withdrawn and remanded to the U.S. EPA for revisions consistent with the courts decisions. In the interim, Generation has been complying with the requirements of the state permitting agencies, which are administering the rule pursuant to their best professional judgment until a new final rule is issued by the U.S. EPA. On January 7, 2010, the NJDEP issued a draft NPDES permit for Oyster Creek that would have required, in the exercise of its best professional judgment, the installation of cooling towers as the best technology available within seven years after the effective date of the permit. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. In reliance on that announcement, NJDEP determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through the cessation of generation operations. See further discussion of the planned shutdown of Oyster Creek in the Plant Retirements section below. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Exelon anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEds petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. The following table presents the impacts to Exelons and ComEds actual 2010 and estimated 2011 pre tax earnings resulting from the Courts order. (Pre tax in millions) Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 1/1/11 5/31/11 (a) Revenues subject to refund based on Court order (b) $ (17 ) $ (30 ) Reduced pre tax earnings related to Rider SMP (1 ) (7 ) Write off of Rider SMP regulatory asset (4 ) 71 Table of Contents (a) ComEd currently expects new rates will be established in its 2010 distribution rate case no later than June 2011, at which point in time the impacts of the Courts decision should be fully incorporated into ComEds rates. (b) The Court also required the ICC to consider whether an additional three months of net pro forma plant investment, beyond what was approved in the ICC order, should be included in rate base. To the extent the ICC allows ComEd to include an additional three months of net plant additions in its revised rates, the pre tax revenues subject to refund would be reduced by an estimated $12 million in total through the first five months of 2011. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On June 30, 2010, ComEd requested ICC approval for an increase of $396 million to its annual delivery services revenue requirement (2010 Rate Case). On January 3, 2011, ComEd filed surrebuttal testimony which adjusted ComEds requested increase to $326 million to account for recent changes in tax law, corrections, acceptance of limited adjustments proposed by certain parties and the amounts expected to be recovered in the AMI pilot program tariff. The request to increase the annual revenue requirement is to allow ComEd to continue modernizing its electric delivery system and recover the costs of substantial investments made since the last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflects increased costs, most notably pension and OPEB, since ComEds rates were last determined. The requested increase in electric distribution rates would increase the average residential customers monthly electric bill by approximately 5%. In addition, ComEd is requesting future recovery of certain amounts that were previously recorded as expense. If that request is approved, ComEd would reverse the previously expensed costs and establish regulatory assets with amortization over the period during which rate recovery is allowed. As a result, ComEd would recognize a one time benefit of up to $39 million (pre tax) to reverse the prior charges. The requested increase also includes $22 million for increased uncollectible accounts expense. If the rate request is approved, the threshold for determining over/under recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff would be increased by $22 million. The Courts September 30, 2010 ruling in connection with the 2007 Rate Case makes it highly unlikely that the ICC would decide the post test year accumulated depreciation issue in ComEds favor in the 2010 Rate Case. ComEd estimates that its requested revenue requirement increase of $326 million could be reduced by approximately $85 million as a result of this adjustment. Certain parties have submitted testimony recommending significant reductions to ComEds requested increase as well as the write off of certain assets, most notably the regulatory assets associated with severance costs, which was approximately $74 million as of December 31, 2010. Management believes the regulatory asset is appropriate based on the ICCs orders in ComEds last two distribution rate cases. The new electric distribution rates are expected to take effect no later than June 2011. ComEd cannot predict how much of the requested electric distribution rate increase the ICC may approve. See the discussion of ComEds 2007 Rate Case above and in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to the Courts ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the ICC approved ComEds request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding. ComEd Alternative Regulation Pilot Program. On August 31, 2010, ComEd filed with the ICC an alternative regulation pilot proposal as a companion proposal to its 2010 Rate Case under a provision of the Illinois Public Utility Act that contemplates an alternative regulatory structure. Rather than employing the traditional rate setting process in which the utility seeks recovery of costs already incurred, the proposal, if approved, would bring utilities, stakeholders, and the ICC together to develop, review and approve ongoing investment programs before those investments are made. The pilot 72 Table of Contents process would include a flow through mechanism to recover the depreciation and the carrying costs associated with an estimated $130 million in capital investments and $65 million in incremental operating and maintenance expense over a two year period, as incurred. The unrecovered portion of the capital investments would be included in ComEds rate base in its future delivery services rate case filing. The alternative regulatory structure as proposed by ComEd includes an immediate operating and maintenance savings to customers (up to $2 million) and an incentive mechanism for completing the capital investments under budget. This filing includes a request for approval of the alternative regulatory mechanism as well as approval of costs related to electric vehicles, accelerated reinvestment of urban underground facilities and low income assistance. If the mechanism is approved, ComEd would also seek recovery of an estimated $125 million of smart grid investments after the conclusion of the Illinois Statewide Smart Grid Collaborative workshops, the smart grid policy docket and the evaluation of its AMI pilot program. The ICC is scheduled to issue an order by May 28, 2011. Proposed Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. ComEd and other Illinois utilities and legislators are working to develop legislation that would modernize Illinois electric grid. The proposal includes a policy based approach which would provide a more predictable ratemaking system and would enable utilities to modernize the electric grid and set the stage for fostering economic development while creating and retaining jobs. Many other states are changing or are considering changes to the way they regulate utilities in order to improve the predictability of the ratemaking process. The proposed legislation, which was introduced in the Illinois General Assembly on February 8, 2011, includes a process for determining formula rates that would provide for the recovery of actual costs of service that are prudently incurred and reasonable in amount, reflect the utilitys actual capital structure (excluding goodwill), and include a formula for calculating the return on equity component of the cost of capital. The proposed legislation would apply to electric and gas utilities in Illinois on an opt in basis and would not have any effect on the IPA process for energy procurement. If the proposed legislation were to be enacted, ComEd would anticipate adopting a formula rate and investing an additional $2.6 billion in capital expenditures over the next ten years to modernize its system and implement smart grid technology, including improvements to cyber security. These investments would be incremental to ComEds otherwise planned capital expenditures. However, there can be no assurances that the proposed legislation will be enacted into law. 2011 Pennsylvania Electric and Natural Gas Rates. On December 16, 2010, the PAPUC approved the settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case for an increase of $225 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 71% of the $316 million originally requested. The natural gas distribution rate case settlement reflects an increase of approximately $20 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 46% of the $44 million originally requested. The approved electric and natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. In accordance with the DSP Program, PECO has completed four competitive procurements for electric supply for default electric service customers commencing January 2011. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had procured substantially all of the total estimated electric supply needed to serve the residential customer class in 2011. The approved electric distribution rate case settlement and the 2010 electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. The approved natural gas distribution rate case settlement and the estimated 2011 PGC costs will result in an increase of 1% in the average residential customer total natural gas bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. 73 Table of Contents See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case and procurement proceedings. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. This financial reform legislation includes a provision that requires over the counter derivative transactions to be executed through an exchange or centrally cleared. The legislation provides an exemption from mandatory clearing requirements for transactions that are used to hedge commercial risk like those utilized by Generation. At the same time, the legislation includes provisions under which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission may impose collateral requirements for transactions, including those that are used to hedge commercial risk. However, during drafting of the legislation, members of Congress issued a public letter stating that it was not their intention to impose margin and collateral requirements on counterparties that utilize transactions to hedge commercial risk. Final rules on major provisions in the legislation, including new margin requirements, will be established through rulemakings and will not take effect until 12 months after the date of enactment. If deemed a swap dealer, Generation would be required to execute over the counter derivative transactions, except those with qualifying end users that are used to hedge commercial risk, through an exchange or central clearinghouse subject to margin requirements; conversely, if deemed a qualifying end user, Generation could elect not to clear such transactions. Although we believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely, a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales is estimated to require approximately $1 billion of additional collateral. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation establishes a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities will administer an RFP process to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or baseload generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. The pilot program seeks capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MW. The selected generators are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in at zero. Generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. On February 1, 2011, PJM Power Providers Group, of which Generation is a member, filed a complaint asking FERC to revise PJMs MOPR to mitigate this exercise of buyer market power. Generation expects PJM to make a similar filing at FERC. In addition, on February 9, 2011, Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act, (Senate Bill 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. The rate change from 7.3% to 9.5% will result in a one time charge or credit to deferred taxes as the balances must be recalculated at the new corporate tax rates. The Registrants are unable to 74 Table of Contents estimate the impact at this time. Additionally, the rate change will increase Exelons future Illinois state income taxes, net of offsetting Federal benefit, by approximately $25 million in 2011, of which $10 million and $10 million relate to Generation and ComEd, respectively. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The current NRC license for Oyster Creek expires in 2029. In reliance upon Exelons determination to cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, the NJDEP has determined that closed cycle cooling is not the best technology available for Oyster Creek given the length of time that would be required to retrofit from the existing once through cooling system to a closed cycle cooling system and the limited life span of Oyster Creek after installation of a closed cycle cooling system. Based on its consideration of these and other factors, in its best professional judgment, NJDEP has determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through cessation of generation operations. As a result of the announcement to close Oyster Creek by 2019, Generations operating expenses increased by $7 million (pre tax) in 2010 and are estimated to increase approximately $25 $30 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. The impacts to Generations operating expenses in years 2016 through 2019 will be dependent on future capital spending at Oyster Creek. Generation will also make employee retention payments of approximately $20 million in 2011 that are expected to increase operating expenses by approximately $4 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 and Unit 2. PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades will be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those upgrades will be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of the units on the following schedule: Cromby Unit 1 and Eddystone Unit 1 on May 31, 2011; Cromby Unit 2 on December 31, 2011; and Eddystone Unit 2 on June 1, 2012. As a result, on December 14, 2010, Generation reached a proposed settlement with FERC Staff and other intervenors regarding the terms of the reliability must run rate schedule, subject to FERC approval, for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2. Under the proposed settlement, monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2 would be approximately $2 million and $6 million, respectively. In addition, Generation would be reimbursed for variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 75 Table of Contents Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors; and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) then the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for eight of its nuclear units, and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining eleven operating nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG). Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for eight units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license 76 Table of Contents renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $190 million per unit as of December 31, 2010. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2009 CARFR instead of the 2010 CARFR in performing its third quarter ARO update, it would have resulted in a $180 million decrease in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2010 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased $60 million or increased $90 million, respectively. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2010 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 450 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 150 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 210 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 370 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF were to be extended to 2030, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets 77 Table of Contents and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2010; however, adverse regulatory actions that could reduce ComEds allowed long term rate of return on common equity or a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in fair value as of November 1, 2010, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisition of John Deere Renewables on December 9, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing); discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Generation did not record any goodwill related to the acquisition of John Deere Renewables. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level 78 Table of Contents of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one used at the start of the lease. In determining the estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the estimated residual value is lower than at the start of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply 79 Table of Contents for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit and other postretirement plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans and the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification in accordance with authoritative guidance under the fair value hierarchy. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.50%, 8.50% and 8.75% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, 80 Table of Contents respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.83%, 8.10% and 7.80% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The EROA is based on asset allocations at year end. In 2010, Exelon modified its pension investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon plans to decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of risk reducing and return seeking assets. The change in the overall investment strategy will likely lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 8.00% and 7.08% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. For 2012, Exelon projects an EROA of 7.50% and 7.08% for pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 11.9% and 11.6%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.50% and 7.83%, respectively. Those return levels are expected to decrease 2011 and 2012 benefit costs as follows: (dollars in millions) Decrease in 2011Pension Cost Decrease in 2011PostretirementBenefit Cost Decrease in 2012Pension Cost Decrease in 2012PostretirementBenefit Cost 2010 actual asset returns $ (8 ) $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ (7 ) This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential decrease in benefit costs set forth above. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining both the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 5.83% and 6.09%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. 81 Table of Contents The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 5.26% and 5.30% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. In particular, the Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation, which increased its postretirement benefit obligation by $145 million as of December 31, 2010 and increases annual other postretirement benefit costs by approximately $32 million, beginning in 2011. The excise tax is applied to the value of retiree health care benefits in excess of certain thresholds, which increase each year based on the rate of CPI. Therefore, the assumed rate of CPI impacts the extent to which Exelons future retiree health care benefit premiums exceed the thresholds. Exelon assumed an annual CPI of 2.5% in calculating the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, a 50 basis point decrease in the assumed CPI (holding all other assumptions constant) would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $70 million, and a 50 basis point increase in the assumed CPI would have decreased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $65 million. The impact of the excise tax is also dependent on whether pre and post 65 retirees can be aggregated for purposes of calculating the value of health care benefits provided by Exelon. The value of the health care benefits provided to pre 65 employees is greater than the value for post 65 employees because pre 65 employees are not eligible for Medicare. The aggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations reduces the average value of the health care benefits and, therefore, results in less excise tax. Exelon has assumed pre and post 65 retirees will be allowed to be aggregated for purposes of calculating the impact of the excise tax on its other postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010. The disaggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $200 million (holding all other assumptions constant) as of December 31, 2010. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 7.00% at December 31, 2010, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2015. 82 Table of Contents Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions: The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension OtherPostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2010 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (51 ) $ (27 ) $ (78 ) (0.5)% 55 27 82 EROA 0.5% (47 ) (7 ) (54 ) (0.5)% 47 7 54 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 53 53 (1.00)% N/A (43 ) (43 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 20 20 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2010: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (730 ) (229 ) (959 ) (0.5)% 775 243 1,018 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 490 490 (1.00)% N/A (405 ) (405 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 201 201 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.4 years, 12.7 years and 12.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.8 years, 6.8 years and 6.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.0 years, 9.2 years and 9.4 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 83 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of this guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable expectation that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2010, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies, as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. As part of the preparation for the expiration of the PPA with Generation at the end of 2010, PECO has entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative 84 Table of Contents activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium or REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC purchase and sale contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the 85 Table of Contents subsequent RFP process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. 86 Table of Contents Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The Registrants use a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or 87 Table of Contents unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of 88 Table of Contents energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,258 $ (136 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,717 $ (10 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. 89 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 322 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 3,463 2,932 (531 ) 3,572 640 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,562 6,771 (209 ) 7,182 (411 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 2,812 2,938 126 2,717 (221 ) Depreciation and amortization 474 333 (141 ) 274 (59 ) Taxes other than income 230 205 (25 ) 197 (8 ) Total other operating expenses 3,516 3,476 (40 ) 3,188 (288 ) Operating income 3,046 3,295 (249 ) 3,994 (699 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (153 ) (113 ) (40 ) (136 ) 23 Loss in equity method investments (3 ) 3 (1 ) (2 ) Other, net 257 376 (119 ) (469 ) 845 Total other income and deductions 104 260 (156 ) (606 ) 866 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,150 3,555 (405 ) 3,388 167 Income taxes 1,178 1,433 255 1,130 (303 ) Income from continuing operations 1,972 2,122 (150 ) 2,258 (136 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 (20 ) Net income $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 90 Table of Contents Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower realized margins on affiliate and market sales due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains, reduced revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading book and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by additional volumes available for market and retail sales, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations and costs associated with the announced shut down of three coal fired and one dual fossil fired generation unit in Pennsylvania. These actions were a direct result of current and future expected market conditions. Market conditions also contributed to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008, which resulted in higher pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2009. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the favorable results of Exelons company wide cost savings initiative and lower nuclear refueling outage costs. Additionally, due to a significant rebound in the financial markets, Generation experienced strong performance in its NDT funds in 2009. As a result, Generations earnings improved as its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized gains in 2009 compared to significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy 91 Table of Contents and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, other revenue and mark to market activities are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 2,512 $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% $ 2,721 $ (143 ) (5.3 )% Midwest (b) 4,081 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% 4,100 48 1.2 % South and West (131 ) (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% (73 ) (44 ) (60.3 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,462 $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% $ 6,748 $ (139 ) (2.1 )% Trading portfolio 27 1 26 n.m. 106 (105 ) (99.1 )% Mark to market gains 86 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% 452 (271 ) (60.0 )% Other (c)(d) (13 ) (20 ) 7 35.0 % (124 ) 104 83.9 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,562 $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% $ 7,182 $ (411 ) (5.7 )% (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which includes amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation, decommissioning revenues from PECO and fuel sales. (d) In 2010, Other also includes the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation Mid Atlantic (a) 47,517 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% 47,748 118 0.2 % Midwest 92,493 91,804 689 0.8 % 91,594 210 0.2 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (b) 9,436 8,938 498 5.6 % 9,804 (866 ) (8.8 )% Midwest 68 4 64 n.m. 9 (5 ) (55.6 )% South and West 1,213 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% 756 491 64.9 % Purchased power (c) Mid Atlantic 1,918 1,747 171 9.8 % 2,314 (567 ) (24.5 )% Midwest 7,032 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% 8,628 (890 ) (10.3 )% South and West 12,112 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% 15,321 (1,600 ) (10.4 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 58,871 58,551 320 0.5 % 59,866 (1,315 ) (2.2 )% Midwest 99,593 99,546 47 0.0 % 100,231 (685 ) (0.7 )% South and West 13,325 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% 16,077 (1,109 ) (6.9 )% Total supply 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (b) Includes generation in New England. (c) Includes non PPA purchases of 4,681 GWh, 3,535 GWh and 7,384 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% 23,200 (6,370 ) (27.5 )% PECO 42,003 39,897 2,106 5.3 % 40,966 (1,069 ) (2.6 )% Market and retail (c) 124,463 116,338 8,125 7.0 % 112,008 4,330 3.9 % Total electric sales 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP. The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009 and 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. $/MWh 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009% Change 2008 2009 vs. 2008% Change Mid Atlantic (a) $ 42.67 $ 44.03 (3.1 )% $ 45.45 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(b) $ 40.98 $ 41.67 (1.7 )% $ 40.91 1.9 % South and West $ (9.83 ) $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% $ (4.54 ) (72.2 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (c) $ 37.62 $ 38.20 (1.5 )% $ 38.48 (0.7 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to ComEd under its RFP of $288 million (8,218 GWh), $88 million (1,916 GWh) and $29 million (486 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $385 million, $292 million and $(2) million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (c) Excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in less volumes available for market sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $143 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to reduced volumes of sales and unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO, lower realized margins on market sales as well as increased costs of nuclear and fossil fuels. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 93 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $48 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to increased market and retail sales, including additional volumes sold under the ComEd RFP and increased settlements under the ComEd swap. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes sold under the ComEd auction contract due to the expiration of certain tranches and increased nuclear fuel costs. South and West In the South and West, there are certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $44 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and higher fuel costs associated with owned generation. Trading Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The year ended December 31, 2010 includes revenue recorded from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The trading portfolio revenues decreased due primarily to earnings in 2008 from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $94 million in 2009, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $414 million in 2008. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $87 million in 2009 compared to gains of $38 million in 2008. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. 94 Table of Contents Other Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily due to the impacts of $123 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, partially offset by $24 million in lower fuel sales. Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2010, as compared to 2009 and 2008, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2010 2009 2008 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.6 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 17.31 $ 16.07 $ 15.87 (b) (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) Excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs, resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of outage days. For 2009 and 2008, refueling outage days totaled 263 and 241, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 78 and 59, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs, partially offset by lower plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2009 as compared to 2008. 95 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ 223 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 92 Nuclear insurance credits (b) 28 Announced plant shutdowns (c) 24 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (d) (46 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (e) (35 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (f) (26 ) Accounts receivable reserve (g) (22 ) Other (17 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 221 (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008. No premiums were returned for 2009. (c) Reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Primarily reflects the impact of decreased planned and unplanned nuclear outage days in 2009. (e) Primarily reflects the impact of Exelons 2009 cost savings program. (f) Primarily reflects an increased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the Non Regulatory Agreement Units during 2009 as compared to 2008. (g) Reflects the impact of an increase in accounts receivable reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 96 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rate. The change in depreciation rate resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns, which resulted in $32 million of accelerated depreciation expense. Additionally, the change in the estimated useful life of a fossil fired power plant in 2008 resulted in $18 million higher depreciation expense in 2009. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the impact of the reassessment of the useful lives of several other fossil fired facilities in 2008 and reduced depreciation expense associated with the generating assets impaired in 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase was primarily due to a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in interest expense is primarily due to the debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the decrease in interest expense reflects lower interest of $16 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates. Interest on the spent fuel obligation accrues at the 13 week Treasury Rate and is recalculated on a quarterly basis. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, the decrease in interest expense reflects a $16 million increase in capitalized interest during 2009 as compared to 2008. These decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the 97 Table of Contents decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarter of 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase reflects net unrealized gains in 2009 on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units as compared to net unrealized losses in 2008. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the increase reflects the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2009 compared to the contractual elimination of $202 million of income tax benefit in 2008. These increases are partially offset by the impacts of income in 2008 related to the termination of a gas supply guarantee and $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in Other, net for 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 104 $ 227 $ (324 ) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 2 $ (19 ) $ (39 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 37.4%, 40.3% and 33.4%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 98 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 430 $ 6,136 $ (362 ) Purchased power expense 3,307 3,065 (242 ) 3,582 517 Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 2,897 2,709 188 2,554 155 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 975 1,028 53 1,097 69 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 94 63 (31 ) 28 (35 ) Depreciation and amortization 516 494 (22 ) 464 (30 ) Taxes other than income 256 281 25 298 17 Total other operating expenses 1,841 1,866 25 1,887 21 Operating income 1,056 843 213 667 176 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (386 ) (319 ) (67 ) (348 ) 29 Loss in equity method investments (8 ) 8 Other, net 24 79 (55 ) 18 61 Total other income and deductions (362 ) (240 ) (122 ) (338 ) 98 Income before income taxes 694 603 91 329 274 Income taxes 357 229 (128 ) 128 (101 ) Net income $ 337 $ 374 $ (37 ) $ 201 $ 173 (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income is primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. 99 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in ComEds net income was driven primarily by higher revenue net of purchased power expense, reflecting increased distribution rates effective September 16, 2008 due to an ICC rate order, partially offset by a decline in electric deliveries, primarily resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load in 2009. In addition, ComEds increase in net income reflected lower operating and maintenance expenses, lower interest expense, and higher interest income related to the 2009 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflected Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. The initiative included job reductions, for which ComEd recorded a charge for severance expense as a cost to achieve these savings. ComEd also benefited from decreased storm expenses. Operation and maintenance expenses reflected increased pension and other postretirement benefits expenses due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. In the September 2008 rate case ruling, the ICC mandated fixed asset disallowances while allowing certain regulatory assets, which were recorded as a net one time charge in 2008. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to higher plant balances and new depreciation rates which became effective January 1, 2009. ComEd experienced a decrease in interest expense primarily due to lower outstanding debt in 2009. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 66,200 and 53,400 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible Accounts Recovery 59 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 26 Rider SMP Revenues 11 Rate Relief Programs 7 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 11 Total increase $ 188 100 Table of Contents Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8 )% (5.8 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible Accounts Recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs and other programs, and are allowed recovery of the costs of these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. During 2010, ComEd recognized $85 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $59 million in 2009. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rider SMP Revenues In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers via Rider SMP. During 2010, ComEd recognized $11 million of revenue associated with this program. This amount was offset by operating and maintenance expense and depreciation expense of $11 million, which included a $4 million write off of the associated regulatory asset as a result of the September 30, 2010 ruling by the Illinois Appellate Court which denied future recover of ComEds AMI pilot program costs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Rate Relief Programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 101 Table of Contents 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Distribution Pricing $ 214 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 34 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 10 Transmission (26 ) Volume delivery (40 ) Weather delivery (45 ) Other 8 Total increase $ 155 Distribution Pricing The increase in retail electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of distribution pricing in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, reflected the impact of the 2007 Rate Case. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in increased distribution revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008 and are allowed recovery of the costs of 102 Table of Contents these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. In 2009, ComEd recognized $59 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $25 million in 2008. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $8 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2009 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense decreased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2009. This was partially offset by the impact of higher transmission rates effective June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2009, resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume delivery The decrease in revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, in 2009 as compared to 2008, reflected decreased average usage per customer and fewer customers in the ComEd service territory. Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2009 compared to 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,429 6,680 6,362 (3.8 )% 1.1 % Cooling Degree Days 589 828 855 (28.9 )% (31.1 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008. Other Other revenues were higher in 2009 compared to 2008. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, assistance provided to other utilities through mutual assistance programs and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Fringe benefits 5 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Contracting (6 ) Wages and other benefits (7 ) Corporate allocations (8 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (4 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. 104 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense $ 51 Severance 19 Provision for uncollectible accounts (a) 14 Injuries and damages (1 ) Rate Relief Programs (6 ) Corporate allocations (7 ) Fringe benefits (7 ) Wages and salaries (26 ) Contracting and materials (32 ) 2007 Rate Case disallowances (b) (22 ) Storm related costs (40 ) Other (12 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (69 ) (a) Uncollectable accounts expense increased in part as a result of the current overall negative economic conditions, partially mitigated by ComEds increased collection activities in 2009. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred expenses. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the period. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. In 2010, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $85 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $59 million and $4 million, respectively, for 2009. In 2010, expenses related to ComEds AMI pilot program were $5 million. Such amount excludes a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling and $2 million of depreciation expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $59 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $25 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 105 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 16 (a) $ 25 (b) 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances (2 ) Other amortization expense 6 7 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 22 $ 30 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher plant balances. (b) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher plant balances and changes to useful lives of assets based on a depreciation rate study, which became effective January 1, 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Historically, ComEd has recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. ComEd believes it now has sufficient, reliable evidence to record and support an estimated receivable associated with the anticipated refund for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Taxes other than income decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of $9 million of property tax settlements recorded in 2009. These settlements will result in lower rates prospectively. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Uncertain income tax positions remeasurement (a)(f) $ 65 $ (6 ) Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b)(c) 5 (20 ) Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (d) (4 ) 6 Other (e) 1 (9 ) Increase (decrease) in interest expense, net $ 67 $ (29 ) (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In 2008, interest expense included a $7 million charge to reverse previously recognized AFUDC resulting from the January 18, 2008 FERC order granting incentive treatment on ComEds largest transmission project. (c) ComEd Financing II and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were dissolved in 2008. (d) During 2008, ComEd recorded an increase in interest expense of $6 million related to a settlement with the IRS of a research and development claim. (e) Primarily reflects the decrease in interest for short term borrowings in 2009 compared to 2008. (f) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. 106 Table of Contents Other, Net The changes in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (59 ) $ 59 Gain on disposal of assets and investments (5 ) 5 Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 (7 ) Other 2 4 (Decrease) increase in Other, net $ (55 ) $ 61 (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 51.4%, 38.0% and 38.9%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 29,171 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% 28,389 (6.2 )% (1.4 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,904 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% 33,487 (3.7 )% (2.2 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,717 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % 28,809 (7.4 )% (6.7 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,273 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % 1,214 1.9 % 2.0 % Total Retail 91,065 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % 91,899 (5.6 )% (3.3 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 3,438,677 3,425,570 3,438,065 Small commercial & industrial 363,393 360,779 359,026 Large commercial & industrial 2,005 1,985 2,072 Public authorities & electric railroads 5,078 5,008 5,075 Total 3,809,153 3,793,342 3,804,238 107 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,549 $ 3,115 13.9 % $ 3,284 (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,639 1,660 (1.3 )% 1,831 (9.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 397 387 2.6 % 385 0.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 62 57 8.8 % 59 (3.4 )% Total Retail 5,647 5,219 8.2 % 5,559 (6.1 )% Other Revenue (b) 557 555 0.4 % 577 (3.8 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 7.4 % $ 6,136 (5.9 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. Results of Operations PECO 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 208 $ 5,567 $ (256 ) Purchased power and fuel 2,762 2,746 (16 ) 3,018 272 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel (a) 2,757 2,565 192 2,549 16 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 680 640 (40 ) 731 91 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 53 (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,060 952 (108 ) 854 (98 ) Taxes other than income 303 276 (27 ) 265 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 2,096 1,868 (228 ) 1,850 (18 ) Operating income 661 697 (36 ) 699 (2 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (193 ) (187 ) (6 ) (226 ) 39 Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 (16 ) (8 ) Other, net 8 13 (5 ) 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (185 ) (198 ) 13 (224 ) 26 Income before income taxes 476 499 (23 ) 475 24 Income taxes 152 146 (6 ) 150 4 Net income 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 320 $ 349 $ (29 ) $ 321 $ 28 (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 108 Table of Contents Net Income Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income was driven primarily by increased operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense and decreased interest expense, which was partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily related to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009, which were partially offset by reduced electric load. PECOs operating expenses increased as a result of increased scheduled CTC amortization expense and pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. The increased operating expenses were partially offset by decreased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power expense and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. Gas revenues and fuel expense are affected by fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs PGC. Therefore, fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs have no impact on gas revenue net of fuel expense. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf was $7.66, $8.80 and $11.31 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Under PECOs full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010, purchased power costs were based on the energy component of the rates charged to customers. Electric revenues and purchased power expense fluctuate in relation to customer class usage as each customer class was charged a different capped electric generation rate; however, there is no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in customer choice program participation. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 36,600, 21,700 and 24,800 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing 2%, 1% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. Due to PECOs transition to market based procurement of electric supply on January 1, 2011, the number of customers that choose to purchase generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier is expected to increase in the first quarter of 2011 and beyond. 109 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 59 59 Pricing 6 6 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by the lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winter months of 2010 compared to 2009. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Required Programs Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory required programs was due to the recovery of $56 million and $3 million in costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively, which included $6 million related to gross receipts taxes. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required 110 Table of Contents programs during the period. The gross receipts tax revenues are offset by the corresponding gross receipts tax expense included in taxes other than income during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (15 ) $ 3 $ (12 ) CTC recoveries (42 ) (42 ) Gas distribution rate increase 77 77 Volume (41 ) (2 ) (43 ) Pricing 43 43 Other (3 ) (4 ) (7 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (58 ) $ 74 $ 16 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2009 weather conditions in PECOs service territory and gas revenues net of fuel expense were higher due to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory in the winter months of 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2009 and 2008, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,534 4,403 4,638 3.0 % (2.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,246 1,354 1,292 (8.0 )% (3.6 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008 111 Table of Contents CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries was a result of lower delivery volumes due to unfavorable weather conditions and decreased usage across all customer classes. Gas distribution rate increase The increase in gas revenues net of fuel expense reflected increased distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case. Volume The decrease in revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected decreased electric usage per customer across all customer classes as well as decreased gas usage across the small commercial and industrial customer class. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with volume shifts among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Salaries and other benefits 20 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 112 Table of Contents The decrease in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ (97 ) Storm related costs (9 ) Materials and supplies (3 ) Pension and OPEB expense 11 Wages and salaries 5 Severance 3 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (91 ) Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. These expenses consisted of $50 million and $3 million related to energy efficiency and consumer education programs, which began in 2010. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 CTC amortization (a) $ 98 $ 90 Other 10 8 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 108 $ 98 (a) The increase in PECOs scheduled CTC amortization recorded was in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income for 2010 compared to 2009 and in 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 PURTA amortization (a) $ 2 $ 34 Taxes on utility revenues (b) 22 (22 ) Other 3 (1 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 27 $ 11 (a) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offset the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. 113 Table of Contents (b) The increase in tax expense for 2010 compared to 2009 reflected increased gross receipts tax as a result of higher revenue. The decrease in tax expense for 2009 compared to 2008 was due to a gross receipts tax rate reduction that became effective on January 1, 2009. Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the outstanding debt balance owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of interest income recorded in 2009 related to the SSCM settlement. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 31.9%, 29.3% and 31.6%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,913 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % 13,317 (3.2 )% (2.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 8,503 8,397 1.3 % (1.9 )% 8,680 (3.3 )% (2.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 16,372 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % 16,477 (3.8 )% (3.1 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 925 930 (0.5 )% (0.3 )% 909 2.3 % 2.3 % Total Electric Retail 39,713 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % 39,383 (3.3 )% (2.6 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 1,411,643 1,404,416 1,405,532 Small commercial & industrial 156,865 156,305 156,309 Large commercial & industrial 3,071 3,094 3,088 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,102 1,085 1,085 Total 1,572,681 1,564,900 1,566,014 Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $2,069 $1,859 11.3 % $1,918 (3.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,060 1,034 2.5 % 1,053 (1.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,362 1,307 4.2 % 1,406 (7.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 89 90 (1.1 )% 87 3.4 % Total Retail 4,580 4,290 6.8 % 4,464 (3.9 )% Other Revenue (b) 255 259 (1.5 )% 282 (8.2 )% Total Electric Revenues $4,835 $4,549 6.3 % $4,746 (4.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges and a CTC. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 115 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers(in mmcf) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal% Change 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Weather Normal% Change Retail sales 56,833 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % 56,110 1.8 % (1.4 )% Transportation and other 30,911 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % 27,624 (1.5 )% (1.2 )% Total Gas Deliveries 87,744 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % 83,734 0.7 % (1.4 )% As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 448,391 444,923 441,790 Commercial & industrial 41,303 40,991 40,830 Total Retail 489,694 485,914 482,620 Transportation 838 778 646 Total 490,532 486,692 483,266 Gas revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Retail Delivery and Sales Retail sales 656 732 (10.4 )% 795 (7.9 )% Transportation and other 28 30 (6.7 )% 26 15.4 % Total Gas Deliveries 684 762 (10.2 )% 821 (7.2 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $1 billion and $574 million, respectively. The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities in the first half of 2011. The ComEd credit facility extends through March 2013. The Registrants utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. 116 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension plan contributions, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $952 million, $871 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of the $2.1 billion in contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. These cash tax benefits will be realized over the course of 2011. As a result, the Registrants used other short term liquidity sources and ComEds January 2011 $600 million debt issuance, to fund a portion of the contribution on a short term, interim basis until these cash tax benefits are realized. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit claims paid and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute $185 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2011, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $85 million, $58 million and $29 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $203 million and $157 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $10 million and $10 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension contributions. 117 Table of Contents Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2011, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $270 million between 2011 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in the first half of 2011 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for electric transmission and distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, ComEd and PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, ComEd and PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements stipulate that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next electric and natural gas distribution base rate cases. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $170 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See further details regarding the use of the cash generated in the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. 118 Table of Contents The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance 2008 2009 vs. 2008Variance Net income $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,340 3,930 410 3,400 530 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (959 ) (588 ) (371 ) (230 ) (358 ) Income taxes (543 ) (29 ) (514 ) (38 ) 9 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 122 (82 ) 204 (221 ) 139 Option premiums paid, net (124 ) (40 ) (84 ) (124 ) 84 Counterparty collateral received (posted), net (155 ) 196 (351 ) 1,027 (831 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ (850 ) $ 6,551 $ (457 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, net mark to market gains on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ 6,551 Generation 3,032 3,930 4,445 ComEd 1,077 1,020 1,079 PECO 1,150 1,166 969 Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Generation During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net (postings) collections of counterparty collateral of $(1) million, $195 million and $1,029 million, respectively. Net collateral activity is primarily the result of changes in market conditions. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010, $118 million in 2009 and $274 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. 119 Table of Contents During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net payments of approximately $124 million, $40 million and $124 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to Generation (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in payables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $58 million, $(68) million and $141 million, respectively. During 2010, ComEd posted $153 million of cash collateral to PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to Generation primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $1 million, $(43) million and $(12) million, respectively. The 2009 decrease in payables to other energy suppliers is primarily due to an agreement executed in February 2009 between PECO, Generation and PJM that changed the way that PECO and Generation administer their PPA for default service. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon (a)(b) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) $ (3,378 ) Generation (a) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) (1,967 ) ComEd (939 ) (821 ) (958 ) PECO (b) (120 ) (377 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2010, 2009 and 2008 and projected amounts for 2011 are as follows: Projected2011 2010 2009 2008 Generation (c) $ 2,562 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 $ 1,699 ComEd 1,015 962 854 953 PECO 448 545 388 392 Other (d) 18 (64 ) 54 73 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 4,043 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 $ 3,117 120 Table of Contents (a) Includes $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelon Wind. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) Includes nuclear fuel. (d) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 40% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Included in the projected 2011 capital expenditures are a series of planned power uprates across the companys nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 81% and 88% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve company operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as PECOs transmission system reliability upgrades required by PJM related to Generations plant retirements. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth, which for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) $ (2,213 ) Generation (779 ) (1,746 ) (1,470 ) ComEd (179 ) (155 ) (161 ) PECO (811 ) (525 ) (587 ) 121 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fund Generations September 2009 repurchase of variable rate long term tax exempt debt. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. 122 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (a) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (a) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014. ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (a) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to call and refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83 and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 (b) Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 123 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County 1993 Series A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 124 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon Corporate $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities due at various dates Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $10 million scheduled payments of 6.33% notes payable until August 8, 2009 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures due at various dates ComEd $20 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $40 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $42 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $100 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures of ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $154 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 125 Table of Contents (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt control bonds. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduced debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 1,389 $ 1,385 $ 1,335 Generation 1,508 2,276 1,545 ComEd (a) 310 240 PECO 228 316 484 (a) During 2008, ComEd did not pay a dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2011 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2011. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 ComEd $ (155 ) $ 95 $ (310 ) PECO (95 ) (151 ) Other (a) (56 ) 56 Exelon (155 ) (56 ) (405 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ $ 709 $ 1,038 ComEd 429 PECO 709 609 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Generation $ 62 $ 57 $ 86 ComEd 2 8 14 PECO (a) 223 347 320 (a) $180 million, $320 million and $284 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. 126 Table of Contents Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $48 million, $42 million and $130 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2010, 2009 and 2008 include $3 million, $5 million and $60 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.4 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.9 billion was available as of December 31, 2010, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd. Generation also had additional letter of credit facilities that expired in the second quarter of 2010, which were used to enhance variable rate long term tax exempt debt totaling $213 million. Generation repurchased the $213 million of tax exempt bonds during 2010 and has permanently extinguished $24 million of these tax exempt bonds. Generation has the ability to remarket the remaining bonds whenever it determines it to be economically advantageous. Exelon, Generation, PECO and ComEd had access to the commercial paper market during 2010 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. Due to an upgrade in ComEds commercial paper rating in 2010 and improvements in the commercial paper market, ComEd has been able to rely on the commercial paper market as a source of liquidity. ComEd also utilized its credit facility in 2010 to fund its short term liquidity needs and provide credit enhancement for $191 million of variable rate tax exempt bonds. The Registrants routinely review the sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flow from operations, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,156 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.6 billion. The $1,156 million includes $944 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payable and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $212 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $233 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $804 million. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $68 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which are well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $573 million. 127 Table of Contents Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2010, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 46 % 34 % 41 % 40 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 51 57 51 Members equity 66 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2010 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2010: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2010Contributed(Borrowed) PECO $ 31 $ $ BSC 67 (20 ) Exelon Corporate 67 N/A 20 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2010, the Registrants each had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. 128 Table of Contents Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had $577 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $1.1 billion in new money long term debt financing authority. After ComEd issued $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 110, on January 18, 2011, its new money long term debt financing authority with the ICC was reduced to $520 million. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2011 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had retained earnings of $9,304 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,633 million, ComEds retained earnings of $331 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,970 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $522 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 129 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2010 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 12,588 $ 597 $ 1,377 $ 1,827 $ 8,787 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,849 688 1,230 1,056 5,875 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 204 204 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (d) 700 70 131 99 400 Purchase power obligations (e) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 10,041 1,439 2,331 2,223 4,048 Electric supply procurement (f) 1,869 1,252 578 39 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 28 8 6 4 10 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (g) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (h) 738 366 314 53 5 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (i) 12 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Pension minimum funding requirement (j) 1,412 807 243 330 32 Total contractual obligations $ 41,208 $ 5,586 $ 6,770 $ 6,076 $ 22,572 $ 204 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2010, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $204 million and $22 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 130 Table of Contents (i) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (j) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon made an incremental contribution in January 2011, which was contemplated in determining the future years minimum contributions, and may choose to make further additional contributions in future years. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the January 2011 pension contribution. Generation Payment due within (in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ $ 500 $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,204 202 404 352 2,246 Liability and interest for uncertain tax benefits (b) 147 147 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (c) 426 28 52 50 296 Purchase power obligations (d) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 9,470 1,281 2,155 2,099 3,935 Other purchase obligations (f) 409 170 204 32 3 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Total contractual obligations $ 20,379 $ 2,034 $ 3,263 $ 3,328 $ 11,607 $ 147 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. (b) As of December 31, 2010, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $125 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 131 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,231 $ 347 $ 702 $ 277 $ 3,905 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,394 294 490 447 2,163 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 73 73 Operating leases 133 16 28 21 68 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 12 6 6 Electric supply procurement 252 237 15 REC purchase commitments 4 4 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (f) 80 70 9 1 Total contractual obligations $ 10,871 $ 974 $ 1,356 $ 896 $ 7,572 $ 73 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2010, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $73 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECO Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,409 $ 250 $ 675 $ 250 $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,402 129 211 151 911 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 1 1 Operating leases (d) 80 20 40 20 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 571 158 176 124 113 Electric supply procurement (e) 2,746 1,726 971 49 AEC purchase commitments (e) 49 13 18 8 10 Other purchase obligations (f) 134 73 39 19 3 Total contractual obligations $ 7,392 $ 2,369 $ 2,130 $ 621 $ 2,271 $ 1 (a) Includes $184 million due after 2016 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2010, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 132 Table of Contents See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market 133 Table of Contents fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2011 through 2013. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2010 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $33 million, $275 million and $531 million, respectively, for 2011, 2012 and 2013. Power prices sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted in pre tax gains of $27 million due to net mark to market gains of $2 million and realized gains of $25 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $140,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $6,562 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain 134 Table of Contents nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2009 (a) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ $ 907 Total change in fair value during 2009 of contracts recorded in result of operations 137 137 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (24 ) (24 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) (15 ) (15 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,559 ) 267 (1,292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 2,052 (784 ) 1,268 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (515 ) (4 ) 517 (2 ) Changes in collateral (194 ) (194 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 40 40 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (46 ) (46 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications 15 15 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, includes $1 million and $15 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 136 Table of Contents (c) For Generation, includes $371 million and $267 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) For Generation, includes $375 million and $782 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $3 million and $2 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no effective changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts for the remainder of 2010 as the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $971 million, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During 2010 and 2009, this includes $375 million and $782 million of increases related to changes in fair value, respectively, and $371 million and $267 million of decreases, respectively, for reclassifications from regulatory asset to recognize cost in purchased power expense due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2010 ComEd also recorded a $4 million increase in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million and $4 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECOs change in fair value includes $3 million and $2 million related to changes in fair value, respectively, associated with the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation for the remainder of 2010 and the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract beginning January 2011. (f) Includes $73 million and $46 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c) : Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 4 3 3 1 11 Total $ 315 $ 101 $ 36 $ 4 $ $ $ 456 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 25 (11 ) (1 ) (6 ) (7 ) 39 39 Total $ 135 $ 113 $ 59 $ 28 $ (7 ) $ 39 $ 367 137 Table of Contents (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 459 392 139 1 991 Total $ 770 $ 490 $ 172 $ 4 $ $ $ 1,436 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 29 (4 ) 10 3 1 39 Total $ 139 $ 120 $ 70 $ 37 $ 1 $ $ 367 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $975 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd and $5 million gain related to the fair value of the PECO block contracts. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. ComEd Maturities Within FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (450 ) $ (396 ) $ (147 ) $ (9 ) $ (8 ) $ 39 $ (971 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. 138 Table of Contents PECO Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (9 ) (a) Represents PECOs liabilities associated with its block contracts executed under its DSP Program. Includes $5 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2010. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $58 million and $248 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2010 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,495 $ 563 $ 932 1 $ 102 Non investment grade 9 3 6 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 42 5 37 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,547 $ 572 $ 975 1 $ 102 139 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2010 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,238 $ 203 $ 54 $ 1,495 Non investment grade 9 9 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 29 11 2 42 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,277 $ 214 $ 56 $ 1,547 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2010 Financial institutions $ 280 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 515 Other 180 Total $ 975 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2010, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, primarily based 140 Table of Contents upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from S&P, Fitch or Moodys and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. If the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2010, PECOs credit exposure to suppliers under its electric procurement contracts was immaterial. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and management agreements. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had credit exposure of $10 million under its natural gas supply and management contracts. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. 141 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2009, Generation was holding $965 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $12 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $947 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, $6 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2010, ComEd did not hold any cash or letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from any of the suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $20 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2010, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2010, included a $629 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of 142 Table of Contents approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $863 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2010 and 2009 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2010, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2010 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2010, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $410 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 143 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in EXELON CORPORATION General of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. Generation anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 144 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2010, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. 10 Table of Contents Power Team Generations wholesale marketing and retail electric supplier operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs as part of its overall strategic plan, with objectives such as obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan, such as a financial swap with ComEd that is described below and runs into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2011 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70%, and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts, including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generations efforts. 11 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power Only Purchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2011 $ 291 $ 60 $ 1,632 $ 9 2012 274 17 758 9 2013 151 314 6 2014 147 149 2015 141 150 Thereafter 940 670 Total $ 1,944 $ 77 $ 3,673 $ 24 (a) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010, including certain capacity charges which are subject to plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEds load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. See ComEd Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Generation had a PPA with PECO under which Generation supplied PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through December 31, 2010. Generation supplied electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. As of January 1, 2011, PECO procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECOs load. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding PECOs competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process after 2010. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2011 are as follows: (in millions) Nuclear fuel (a) $ 1,025 Production plant 850 Uprates 475 Wind 225 Total $ 2,575 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant 12 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MW. Retail Electric Services Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier. At December 31, 2010, approximately 66,200 retail customers (primarily commercial and industrial customers), representing approximately 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without mark up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEds reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales are offset by equal amount of purchased power expense. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kW continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kW or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Beginning June 2010 ComEd had no fixed price generation supply service obligations for customers with demands of 100 400 kW. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices. 13 Table of Contents Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Beginning on January 1, 2007, ComEd procured 100% of energy to meet its load service requirements through ICC approved staggered SFCs with various suppliers, including Generation. Beginning in June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31, 2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate order with the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). The Court issued a decision on September 30, 2010, ruling against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEds petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. Subsequent to the Illinois Appellate Courts ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the ICC approved ComEds request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding. On June 30, 2010, ComEd requested ICC approval for an increase of $396 million, subsequently changed to $326 million, to its annual delivery services revenue requirement (2010 Rate Case) to allow ComEd to continue modernizing its electric delivery system and recover the costs of substantial investments made since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested rate increase also reflects increased costs, most notably pension and OPEB, since ComEds rates were last determined. The Courts September 30, 2010 ruling in connection with ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case makes it highly unlikely that the ICC would decide the post test year accumulated depreciation issue in ComEds favor in the 2010 Rate Case. ComEd estimates that its requested revenue requirement increase of $326 million could be reduced by approximately $85 million as a result of this adjustment. Certain parties have submitted testimony recommending significant reductions to ComEds requested increase as well as the write off of certain assets, most notably the regulatory asset associated with severance costs, which was approximately $74 million as of December 31, 2010. Management believes the regulatory asset is appropriate based on the ICCs orders in ComEds last two rate cases. The new electric distribution rates are expected to take effect no later than June 2011. ComEd cannot predict how much of the requested electric distribution rate increase the ICC may approve. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds rate case proceedings. Other. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEds case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the 14 Table of Contents utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not believe that during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2011 is $1,015 million which includes RTEP projects. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other aspects of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards. PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.8 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.8 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 490,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to deliver regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW. PECOs natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf. 15 Table of Contents Retail Electric Services PECOs retail electric sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric generation rates were capped through a transition period which ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a non bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. At December 31, 2010, PECOs stranded costs were fully recovered. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between PECOs actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates without markup through the GSA. Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. For the year ended December 31, 2010, less than 1% of PECOs residential and large commercial and industrial and 4% of its small commercial and industrial loads were purchased from alternative EGSs. The small percentage of customer load provided by an alternative EGS is due to the electric generation rate caps that were lower than current market prices throughout the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates. In preparation for the transition to market based competitive pricing, multiple alternative EGSs began marketing to customers in PECOs service territory. As of January 31, 2011, PECO believes that at least 10% of residential, 46% of small commercial and industrial and 86% of large commercial and industrial loads will be purchased from alternative EGSs. Beginning with January 2011 customer bills, PECO presented its electric supply Price to Compare, which will be updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs. PECOs average residential Price to Compare for the first three months of 2011 is 9.92 cents per kWh. Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact PECOs results of operations or financial position. PECOs cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all the customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for delivery service. PECO receives transmission revenue from PJM for customers that select an alternative EGS. Procurement Proceedings. Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECOs transition period and capped electric generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply for its customers is procured through a competitive process in accordance with its PAPUC approved DSP Program. During 2010, PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC approved bidders for its third and fourth competitive procurements of electric supply for default electric service commencing January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. As of December 31, 2010, including the previous competitive procurements completed in 2009 and 2010, the 2011 expected electric supply for all customer classes had been substantially procured. PECO will conduct five additional competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes during the term of its DSP Program. 16 Table of Contents Electric Distribution Rate Case. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. The electric distribution rate case settlement and the electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill in January 2011, above 2010 bills. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs Smart Meter Programs. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years, accelerate universal deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters from 15 years to 10 years and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million over the next three years. In total, over the next 10 years, PECO is planning to spend up to $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers. Energy Efficiency Programs. In February 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs EE&C plan, which was filed pursuant to Act 129s EE&C reduction targets. The approved four year plan totals more than $330 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. In September 2010, PECO filed revisions to the EE&C Plan previously approved in February 2010 that included adjustments to certain incentive levels and the addition of energy efficiency measures to the existing portfolio. These revisions do not impact the total spending or timely recovery under the approved EE&C plan. On January 27, 2011, the PAPUC unanimously approved PECOs EE&C Plan revisions. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without markup through the PGC. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2010, 39% of PECOs current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas distribution service provided to customers by 17 Table of Contents PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates. Procurement Proceedings. PECOs natural gas supply is provided through purchases from a number of suppliers. These purchases are primarily delivered under long term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECOs 2010 2011 heating season planned supplies. Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases. On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs natural gas distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million. The approved natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, including costs related to transmission system reliability upgrades due to Generations plant retirements, as discussed in Notes 14 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2011 is $450 million, which includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements. ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees. PJM is the ISO and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. 18 Table of Contents ComEds transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERCs order establishes the agreed upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis. As a result of PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission rate included in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff is a FERC approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for transmission service. PECOs 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement provided for recovery of PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges from default service customers, on a full and current basis through a rider. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services. Employees As of December 31, 2010, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,214 employees in the following companies, of which 8,550 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAagreements (c) Total EmployeesCovered by CBA TotalEmployees Generation 1,684 199 1,801 3,684 9,595 ComEd 3,495 3,495 5,692 PECO 1,258 1,258 2,423 Other (d) 86 27 113 1,504 Total 5,265 1,457 1,828 8,550 19,214 (a) A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 36 employees in ComEds System Services Group. (b) 1,258 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 199 employees. (c) During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally expire during 2012 except for the agreements at Clinton and Oyster Creek, which expire in 2013. Additionally, during 2009, a 5 year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. Also in 2010, a 3 year agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees. (d) Other includes shared services employees at BSC. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and 19 Table of Contents Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelons strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and Exelon Transmission Company. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act (Clean Water Act), NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The CERCLA, as amended, provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. 20 Table of Contents Environmental Remediation ComEd and PECOs environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECOs 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011. The amount to be expended in 2011 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $23 million, consisting of $17 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the proposed Transport Rule, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from fossil generating stations, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2010. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, wind and hydroelectric), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel fired generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions. However, only approximately 6% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, 21 Table of Contents sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change. Climate Change Regulation. Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels. International Climate Change Regulation. At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali, Indonesia, the Bali Action Plan was adopted, which identifies a work group, process and timeline for the consideration of possible post 2012 international actions to further address climate change. In December 2009, the United States agreed to the non binding Copenhagen Accord at the conclusion of the 15th Conference of the Parties under the UNFCCC. Under the Copenhagen Accord, the United States agreed to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions. The Conference of the Parties met in Mexico in December 2010 and while some progress was made in the Cancun Agreement, the fundamental issues around GHG emission reductions and a successor to the Kyoto Protocol remain unresolved. The next Conference of the Parties meeting will be held in December 2011 in South Africa. Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or procure emission allowances or credits. Numerous bills were introduced in Congress during the 111th Congress that address climate change from different perspectives, including direct regulation of GHG emissions and the establishment of Federal Renewable Portfolio Standards, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Exelon supports the enactment, through Federal legislation, of a cap and trade program for GHG emissions that is mandatory, economy wide and designed in a way to limit potential harm to the economy and protect consumers. Exelon believes that any mechanism for allocation of GHG emission allowances should include significant free grants of allowances to electric (and potentially gas) distribution companies to help offset the cost impact of GHG regulation to the end use consumer. Over the last few years, Exelon has worked with other businesses and environmental organizations that participate in the United States Climate Action Partnership to support the development of an integrated package of recommendations for the Federal government to address the climate change issue through Federal legislation, including aggressive emission reduction targets for total U.S. emissions and robust cost containment measures to ensure that program costs are reasonable. In reaction to the U.S. EPAs proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. The issue of GHG regulation of stationary sources will likely be addressed either under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act by U.S. EPA regulation, or by new and comprehensive Federal 22 Table of Contents legislation. The Obama administration and the U.S. EPA have stated a preference for addressing the issue through Federal legislation. The extent to which GHG emissions will be regulated is currently unknown; however, potential regulation of GHG emissions from stationary sources could cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance. Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an inter state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations. At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission inventory and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment in 2005 under the U.S. EPAs Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by reducing its carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. In 2010, Exelon announced that it had achieved just over 50% of the annual Exelon 2020 goal. The planned retirement of fossil units, Cromby Units 1 and 2 and Eddystone Unit 1 in 2011 and Eddystone Unit 2 in 2012, will further contribute to fully achieving the goal. The early retirement of Oyster Creek may result in increased generation from fossil generating plants in the PJM RTO, which could result in increased GHG emissions under Exelon 2020 through reverse displacement. The current plan for achieving the Exelon 2020 goal accounts for these events. 23 Table of Contents Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds Smart Ideas portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant awards. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelons emissions reduction efforts will position the company to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal climate policy, Exelon 2020 has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business strategy. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Thirty three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The AEPS Act is effective for PECO beginning in 2011, following the expiration of PECOs transition period. During 2011, PECO will be required to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing by products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification 24 Table of Contents technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to prepare for the first year of required compliance, PECO procured and banked AECs in accordance with their PAPUC approved plan over the past three years. PECO has entered into five year agreements and ten year agreements with accepted bidders, including Generation, to purchase annually 452,000 non solar and 8,000 solar Tier 1 AECs, respectively. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts. In November 2010, PECO filed a petition with the PAPUC for approval to procure Tier II AECs to satisfy PECOs compliance requirements for the AEPS reporting years ending 2011 and 2012. Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generations retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in IL and PA from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 10, 2011 Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 65 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Exelon 2004 2008 President, Generation 2007 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Clark, Frank M. 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present OBrien, Denis P. 50 Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 56 President, Exelon Business Services Company 2005 Present Executive Vice President, Exelon 2008 Present Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon 2010 Present Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2002 2008 25 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Von Hoene Jr., William A. 57 Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon 2009 Present Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2006 2008 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon & Generation 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Principal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO 2005 2006 Vice President, ComEd 2004 2006 Cornew, Kenneth W. 45 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team 2003 2006 Dominguez, Joseph 47 Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Pramaggiore, Anne R. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Bradford, Darryl M. 55 Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2010 Present General Counsel, ComEd 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, ComEd 2007 2009 Vice President, ComEd 2005 2006 26 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period DesParte, Duane M. 47 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2008 Present Vice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2008 Vice President, Business Operations, ComEd; Vice President, Business Operations, PECO 2004 2006 Generation Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 65 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Pardee, Charles G. 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2010 Present President, Exelon Nuclear 2008 2010 Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2008 Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2005 2007 Cornew, Kenneth W. 45 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team 2003 2006 Pacilio, Michael J. 50 President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2010 Present Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Mid West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 Garg, Sunil 44 Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 2010 Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 27 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Dominguez, Joseph 47 Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Treasurer, Exelon and Generation 2011 Present Principal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO 2005 2006 Vice President, ComEd 2004 2006 Galvanoni, Matthew R. 38 Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 Present Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon 2006 ComEd Name Age Position Period Clark, Frank M. 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present Pramaggiore, Anne R. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Hooker, John T. 62 Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd 2005 2008 28 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Donnelly, Terence R. 50 Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd 2007 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2004 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2005 2006 Trpik Jr., Joseph R. 41 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon 2004 2009 Assistant Controller, ComEd 2004 2006 Marquez Jr., Fidel 49 Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd 2007 2009 Vice President of External Affairs, Chicago Operations, ComEd 2004 2006 ONeill, Thomas S. 48 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation;Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon 2009 2009 Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation 2007 2009 Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 Anthony, J. Tyler 46 Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd 2010 Present Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2007 2010 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2007 2007 Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation 2006 2007 Vice President, Project Management, Exelon Nuclear 2004 2006 Waden, Kevin J. 39 Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd 2009 Present Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery 2003 2007 29 Table of Contents PECO Name Age Position Period OBrien, Denis P. 50 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Adams, Craig L. 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Barnett, Phillip S. 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon 2005 2007 Bonney, Paul R. 52 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO 2009 Present General Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO 2007 2009 Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company 2001 2007 Diaz Jr., Romulo L. 64 Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO 2009 Present Associate General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia 2005 2008 Acevedo, Jorge A. 39 Vice President and Controller, PECO 2009 Present Assistant Treasurer, PECO 2010 Present Assistant Controller, Generation 2007 2009 Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation 2003 2007 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond each Registrants control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the Risk Oversight and Audit Committees of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. In addition, the Exelon Board of Directors Generation Oversight and Energy Delivery Oversight Committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect its performance or financial condition. The Registrants most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generations position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the 30 Table of Contents largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants major risks fall primarily under the following categories: Market and Financial Risks. Exelons and Generations market and financial risks include the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Registrants regulatory and legislative risks include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelons and Generations financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generations ability to sell power into the competitive wholesale power markets at market based prices. In addition, potential regulation and legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Operational Risks. The Registrants operational risks include those risks inherent in running the nations largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelons ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation hedges the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls through long term power purchase agreements. Absent any hedging activity through long term, fixed price transactions, Generation would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices in the markets in which its assets are located, which would mean that Generations cash flows would vary accordingly. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, and, therefore, the market price of power will reflect the market price of the marginal fuel. As such, changes in the market price of fossil fuels will cause comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affect the its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind 31 Table of Contents and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poorer than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity. If this continues, it could adversely affect the Registrants ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. A slow recovery could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could also adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control and may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets remain evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generations business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generations NDTs and Exelons employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generations nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated 32 Table of Contents with Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets can adversely affect the Registrants ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. In addition, the credit facilities for Exelon, Generation and PECO largely expire in October 2012. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities, approximately $6.4 billion, in the first half of 2011. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. The Registrants may choose to establish cost effective alternative liquidity sources as appropriate. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of its trading counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations trading business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of trading positions, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEds financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECOs operating agreement with PJM and its power and natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECOs collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current regulatory environments in Illinois and Pennsylvania become less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the applicable state or adopting other measures to mitigate higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if either companys financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. 34 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd or PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants cash flows. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generations asset based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generations financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with ComEd, PECO and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions and for the IRS to withdraw its assertion of a $110 million substantial understatement penalty related to the involuntary conversion position. However, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement on the like kind exchange position. Exelon expects to initiate litigation on this matter during the second half of 2011. If the IRS is successful in its challenge to the like kind exchange position, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2010, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $830 million, excluding penalties. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, Exelons and ComEds results of operations could also be negatively impacted by up to $230 million (after tax) related to interest expense. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the like kind exchange position, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after tax charge of $86 million to Exelons and ComEds results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of the like kind exchange matter are unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 36 Table of Contents Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEds current procurement plan includes purchasing power through contracted suppliers and the spot market. PECO began procuring power at market based rates through contracted suppliers and the spot market on January 1, 2011 following the end of its transition period. ComEds and PECOs costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. For PECO, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas can result in declines in customer usage, lower electric transmission and distribution revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for ComEd and PECO as well as lower gas distribution revenues for PECO. Also, ComEds and PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. In addition to increased purchased power charges for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, the impact of economic downturns on ComEd and PECOs customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations on residential service terminations may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further discussion of the Registrants credit risk. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Generations operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, 37 Table of Contents limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought like conditions can impact Generations ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Certain long lived assets recorded on the Registrants statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Long lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants statement of financial position. Specifically, long lived assets account for 57%, 48%, 58% and 63% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The Registrants evaluate for impairment the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used whenever indications of impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the long lived asset through a non cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases extending through 2028 2032. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these leased assets to determine whether any indications of impairment exist. In determining the estimate of residual value, the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. An impairment would require Exelon to reduce the value of its investment in the plants through a non cash charge to expense. Such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons results of operations. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2010 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. Adverse regulatory actions or a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position in combination with changes in significant assumptions used in estimating ComEds fair value (e.g., discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt) could result in an impairment. Such an impairment would result in a non cash charge to expense, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Notes 5 and 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long lived asset and goodwill impairments. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation and in other internal transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. The Registrants 38 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See Item 1 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Registrants potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Due to its significant contractual agreements with ComEd, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds continued payments under these procurement contracts and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. A default by ComEd under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers where Generation serves load can switch from their respective energy delivery company to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of an electric distribution companies default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from its retail load serving counterparties than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more customers switch than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse regulatory and legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelons and Generations operating results and 39 Table of Contents cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelons, ComEds and PECOs operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on their ability to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power to their customers. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions impacting the Registrants businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low carbon nuclear assets. However, regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high because the competitive model is not working, and are therefore facing calls for some form of re regulation or some other means of reducing wholesale market prices. As the energy markets continue to mature, a low number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings may also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes have expired, is expected to continue in 2011. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives. Approximately 80% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJMs, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures, such as the New Jersey Capacity Legislation enacted into law on January 28, 2011 and other states seeking to enact similar programs, and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about the costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. In addition, FERCs application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERCs tests for market based rates. Since Order 697 became 40 Table of Contents final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generations authority to sell at market based rates and none denying that authority. Generations next submission seeking reauthorization to sell at market based rates was filed on December 30, 2010 for the PJM region. In its filing, Generation submitted studies showing that it continues to satisfy the tests required by Order 697. Should FERC take a more stringent tack with respect to Order 697 applications, it is possible that Generations authority to sell at market based rates could be in doubt. Generation, however, currently expects that FERC will approve its pending application. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd Frank Act was enacted into law. Dodd Frank calls for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the SEC and the Federal Reserve to regulate the market for over the counter (OTC) derivative products. Currently, rulemakings are pending at these agencies, the product of which will be rules that implement the mandates in Dodd Frank to eliminate the risk of systemic failure of financial markets. The significance of the effect on Generation will depend in part on whether it is determined to be a swap dealer or a qualifying end user, based on the meaning of those terms established in the final rules. If Generation is deemed a swap dealer, it will be required execute bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This could require Generation to tie up substantial additional capital in order to satisfy exchange based margin requirements. Even if Generation is not deemed a swap dealer, the rules could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. As Generations hedging program relies heavily on its ability to trade actively in the current bilateral OTC derivatives market, the effect of the new rules could significantly impede Generations ability to meet its hedge targets. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operation, cash flows or financial position. Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in 41 Table of Contents which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies is one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of Section 316(b), which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. On December 8, 2010, pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP regarding the application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to Oyster Creek, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. 42 Table of Contents In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in its service area who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on appeals in connection with ComEds 2007 Illinois electric distribution rate case. Federal or additional state RPS and or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Uncertainties exist as to the construction of new transmission facilities, their cost and how those costs will be allocated to transmission system participants and customers. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2010, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their 43 Table of Contents businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2010, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.8 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $534 million (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record the same amount of extraordinary gain and charge related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Further, Exelon would record a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $2.7 billion and $45 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEds goodwill, respectively. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in ITEM 8 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PECO as operator of a natural gas distribution system is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. 44 Table of Contents The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants results of operations. Operational Risks The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon does not know the impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. As owner operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, Exelon faces a risk that its operations would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. Further, the physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of the Registrants operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Exelons and Generations continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Exelon would be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. 45 Table of Contents Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to committed third party sales, including ComEd and PECO. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 26 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 26 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 60 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generations ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Furthermore, under its contract with the DOE, Generation would be required to pay the DOE a one time SNF storage fee including interest of approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2010, prior to the first delivery of SNF. Generation currently estimates 2020 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the spent nuclear fuel obligation. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license period. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. 46 Table of Contents Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generations results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of their operations, could have effects on transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. As of January 1, 2011, the required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. 47 Table of Contents Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations two units that have been retired) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation were unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed license of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. 48 Table of Contents ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize ComEd and PECOs ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants face information security risks as the owner operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A security breach of the Registrants information systems could impact the reliability of the generation fleet and or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. 49 Table of Contents The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC or state public utility commission regulations may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2010: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,067 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,751 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,286 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,289 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 (e) Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50 Uranium Base load 1,148 (f) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75 Uranium Base load 1,345 (f) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 1,003 (f) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 17,047 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (f) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 (g) Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 (g) Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 (g) Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (f) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (f) 4,734 50 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 391 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,442 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric and Renewable (h) AgriWind Bureau Co., IL 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) Blue Breezes Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 3 Bluegrass Ridge Gentry Co., MO 27 99 Wind Base load 56 (f) Brewster Jackson Co., MN 6 94 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) Cassia Twin Falls Co., ID 14 Wind Base load 29 Cisco Jackson Co., MN 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) City Solar Chicago, IL n.a. Solar Base load 10 Conception Nodaway Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Cow Branch Atchinson Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Cowell Pipestone Co., MN 1 99 Wind Base load 2 (f) CP Windfarm Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 4 Echo 1 Umatilla Co., OR 21 99 Wind Base load 34 (f) Echo 2 Morrow Co., OR 10 Wind Base load 20 Echo 3 Morrow Co., OR 6 99 Wind Base load 10 (f) Ewington Jackson Co., MN 10 99 Wind Base load 20 (f) Greensburg Kiowa Co., KS 10 Wind Base load 13 Harvest Huron Co., MI 32 Wind Base load 53 High Plains Moore Co., TX 8 99.5 Wind Base load 10 (f) Exelon Wind 1 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 2 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 3 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 4 Hansford Co., TX 38 Wind Base load 80 Exelon Wind 5 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 6 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 7 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 8 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 51 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Exelon Wind 9 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 10 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 11 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Loess Hills Atchinson Co., MO 4 Wind Base load 5 Marshall Lyon Co., MN 9 98 99 Wind Base load 19 Michigan Wind Bingham Twp., MI 46 Wind Base load 69 Mountain Home Elmore Co., ID 20 Wind Base load 40 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 Norgaard Lincoln Co., MN 7 99 Wind Base load 9 Threemile Canyon Morrow Co., OR 6 Wind Base load 10 Tuana Springs Twin Falls Co., ID 8 Wind Base load 17 Wolf Nobles Co., MN 5 99 Wind Base load 6 2,383 Total 25,619 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of lower efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines and diesels normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) On December 8, 2010, Generation announced that it will permanently cease generation operation at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (g) On December 2, 2009, Generation announced its intention to permanently retire Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Includes Exelon Wind assets acquired on December 9, 2010. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, transmission congestion, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies or generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. 52 Table of Contents Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,634 138,000 2,241 ComEds electric distribution system includes 35,734 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,118 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds First Mortgage Bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a significant portion of its transmission lines are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs high voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 200 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,983 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,828 cable miles of underground lines. 53 Table of Contents Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2010: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,716 Service piping 5,801 Total 12,548 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 31 natural gas city gate stations and direct pipeline customer delivery points at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. 54 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2011, there were 661,862,913 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 130,323 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 44.49 $ 43.32 $ 45.10 $ 49.88 $ 51.98 $ 54.47 $ 51.46 $ 58.98 Low price 39.05 37.63 37.24 42.97 45.90 47.30 44.24 38.41 Close 41.64 42.58 37.97 43.81 48.87 49.62 50.12 45.39 Dividends 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 55 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2006 through 2010. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2005 in Exelon common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2011, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2011, there were 127,016,519 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 31, 2011, in addition to Exelon, there were 251 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 56 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2011, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing III that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred securities. At December 31, 2010, such capital was $2.9 billion and amounted to about 33 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred securities of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had retained earnings of $9,304 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,633 million, ComEds retained earnings of $331 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,970 million, partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficits, and PECOs retained earnings of $522 million. 57 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2010 2009 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 885 $ 206 $ 156 $ 261 $ 475 $ 1,126 $ 396 $ 279 ComEd 85 75 75 75 60 60 60 60 PECO 46 63 51 64 65 93 67 87 On January 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2011, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2011. 58 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,644 $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ 15,655 Operating income 4,726 4,750 5,299 4,668 3,521 Income from continuing operations $ 2,563 $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ 1,590 Income from discontinued operations 1 20 10 2 Net income (a) $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1,592 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 $ 2.35 Income from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 Net income $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 2.35 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 $ 1.60 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 663 662 662 676 676 (a) The year 2006 reflects the impact of a goodwill impairment charge of $776 million. December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) 2006 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 6,398 $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 $ 4,130 Property, plant and equipment, net 29,941 27,341 25,813 24,153 22,775 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,140 4,872 5,940 5,133 5,808 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 Other deferred debits and other assets 9,136 8,901 8,038 8,760 7,933 Total assets $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 Current liabilities $ 4,240 $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 $ 4,871 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,004 11,385 12,592 11,965 11,911 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,555 3,492 2,520 3,301 3,025 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 18,791 17,338 17,489 14,131 13,439 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Noncontrolling interest 3 Shareholders equity 13,560 12,640 11,047 10,137 10,007 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 (a) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. (b) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 59 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 9,143 Operating income 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 2,396 Income from continuing operations 1,972 2,122 2,258 2,025 1,403 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 4 4 Net income $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 1,407 December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a,b) 2006 (a,b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 $ 2,571 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 7,514 Deferred debits and other assets 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 7,845 Total assets $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 Current liabilities $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 $ 1,990 Long term debt 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 1,778 Deferred credits and other liabilities 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 8,678 Noncontrolling interest 5 2 1 1 1 Members equity 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 5,483 Total liabilities and members equity $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 60 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 6,101 Operating income 1,056 843 667 512 555 Net income (loss) (a) 337 374 201 165 (112 ) (a) The year 2006 reflects the impact of a goodwill impairment charge of $776 million. December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 $ 1,007 Property, plant and equipment, net 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 10,457 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 Noncurrent regulatory assets 947 1,096 858 503 532 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 3,084 Total assets $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 Current liabilities $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 $ 1,600 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 4,133 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 2,824 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 2,919 Shareholders equity 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 6,298 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 61 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ 5,168 Operating income 661 697 699 947 866 Net income 324 353 325 507 441 Net income on common stock 320 349 321 503 437 December 31, in millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 $ 762 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 4,651 Noncurrent regulatory assets 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 3,896 Other deferred debits and other assets 727 882 679 895 464 Total assets $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 Current liabilities $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 $ 978 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 3,784 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 418 317 49 250 151 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 3,051 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 1,722 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 62 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,563 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $2,707 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.87 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $4.09 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure as discussed below, increased by $172 million primarily due to increased revenues of $201 million at Generation largely related to favorable capacity pricing in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions. Exelons results were also affected by the impact of favorable weather conditions of $168 million in the ComEd and PECO service territories and a decrease in costs of $84 million associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation, primarily at Generation. Further, revenues at the utility companies increased by $92 million to recover the costs of regulatory required programs, which are offset in operating expenses, and ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million from customers associated with its uncollectible accounts rider mechanism. Offsetting these favorable impacts were unfavorable market and portfolio conditions of $174 million, increased nuclear fuel costs of $115 million, a reduction of $95 million in mark to market gains from Generations hedging activities in 2010 compared to 2009 and a $57 million impairment of SO2 emissions allowances related to the U.S. EPAs proposed Transport Rule. 63 Table of Contents Operating and maintenance expense decreased by $75 million primarily due to the impact of 2009 activities, including the $223 million impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations in 2009 and reduced stock compensation costs in 2010 of $40 million across the operating companies. Decreased operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by higher costs at the utility companies associated with regulatory required programs of $84 million, which are offset in revenue net of purchased power expense, a 2009 reduction in Generations ARO of $51 million and incremental costs of $42 million related to storms in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $241 million primarily due to increased depreciation expense of $144 million related to ongoing capital expenditures and the change in estimated useful lives associated with the plants subject to shutdowns announced in December 2009 and a scheduled increase in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $98 million in connection with the end of the transition period in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Exelons results were also significantly affected by $120 million in 2009 expenses related to debt extinguishment costs resulting from a 2009 debt refinancing, and by lower net NDT gains of $102 million in 2010 for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of less favorable market performance. Exelon results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were negatively affected by certain income tax related matters. Exelon recorded a non cash charge of $65 million (after tax) in 2010 and a non cash gain of $66 million (after tax) in 2009 for the remeasurement of income tax uncertainties. Exelon also recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,723 million, or $4.12 per diluted share, for the same period in 2009. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 64 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) Earningsper DilutedShare Earningsper DilutedShare Net Income $ 2,563 $ 3.87 $ 2,707 $ 4.09 Illinois Settlement Legislation (a) 13 0.02 66 0.10 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (b) (52 ) (0.08 ) (110 ) (0.16 ) Unrealized Gains Related to NDT Fund Investments (c) (52 ) (0.08 ) (132 ) (0.19 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (d) 50 0.08 34 0.05 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (e) 35 0.05 John Deere Renewables, LLC Acquisition Costs (f) 7 0.01 Asset Retirement Obligation Reduction (g) (7 ) (0.01 ) (32 ) (0.05 ) NRG Energy, Inc. Acquisition Costs (h) 20 0.03 2009 Restructuring Charges (i) 22 0.03 Costs Associated with Early Debt Retirements (j) 74 0.11 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (k) 2 5 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (l) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (m) 65 0.10 (66 ) (0.10 ) Impairment of Certain Generating Assets (n) 135 0.20 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,689 $ 4.06 $ 2,723 $ 4.12 (a) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million and $42 million, respectively). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (b) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $(34) million and $(71) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. (c) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(41) million and $(95) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (d) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation, inventory write downs and severance costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with the planned retirement of four fossil generating units (net of taxes of $32 million and $22 million, respectively). See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (e) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in the third quarter of 2010 as a result of declining market prices since the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with Exelons acquisition of John Deere Renewables, LLC (net of taxes of $4 million) now known as Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in December 31, 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million) and the annual update of Generations decommissioning obligation in 2009 (net of taxes of $(20) million). (h) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2009, associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc., which was terminated in July 2009 (net of taxes of $14 million). (i) Reflects the impact in 2009 of the elimination of management and staff positions (net of taxes of $(14) million). (j) Reflects costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 associated with early debt retirements at Generation and Exelon Corporate (net of taxes of $47 million). 65 Table of Contents (k) Reflects costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1 million and $3 million, respectively). (l) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (m) Reflects the impacts of 2009 and 2010 remeasurements of income tax uncertainties and a 2009 change in state deferred income tax rates (net of taxes on interest expense of $41 million and $23 million). See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. (n) Reflects the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded during the first quarter of 2009 (net of taxes of $87 million). See Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to asset impairments. Outlook for 2011 and Beyond. Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the proposed U.S. EPA Transport Rule and the New Jersey capacity legislation. See Environmental Matters and Regulatory and Legislative Matters sections below for further detail on the Transport Rule and New Jersey capacity legislation, respectively. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place downward pressure on natural gas prices and therefore on wholesale power prices, which would mean a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poorer than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity, and ComEd and PECO are projecting load demand to remain flat in 2011 compared to 2010. Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Although Exelons hedging policies have helped protect Exelons earnings as wholesale market prices have declined, sustained increases in natural gas supply and reserve levels, or a slow recovery of the economy, could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices and in long term sluggish growth in demand. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2011 and 2012. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of 66 Table of Contents expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 will likely result in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA, however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure to commodity price risk through the recovery of procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. During 2009, Generation announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that will result in between 1,300 and 1,500 MW of additional generation capacity within eight years. The uprate projects represent a total investment of approximately $3.65 billion in overnight cost, as measured in 2010 dollars. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 60% of the planned uprate MW, are underway at the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remainder will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2011 and ending in 2017. At 1,500 nuclear generated MW, the uprates would displace 8 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. As part of this periodic review process, the uprate project at Three Mile Island is currently under evaluation. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power 67 Table of Contents increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2010, Generation had added 101 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program, with another 98 MWs scheduled to be added in 2011. Acquisition of John Deere Renewables. On December 9, 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million of which approximately $16 million has been recorded as a current liability and the remainder has been recorded as a noncurrent liability. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. Generation also has the opportunity to pursue approximately 1,200 MWs of new wind projects that are in various stages of development. On September 30, 2010, Generation issued $900 million of senior notes whose proceeds were used to fund the acquisition. The acquisition provides incremental earnings starting in 2012 and cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) have signed a non binding memorandum of understanding to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. The Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. ComEd is expected to lead the building of the Illinois portion of the project. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. These costs are expected to be funded by ComEd, Exelon or an affiliate, ETA and AEP. The ultimate cost of the line will be dependent on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Advanced Metering Infrastructure. On April 22, 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers over the next 10 years. On April 12, 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum allowable grant under the program, for its SGIG project, Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. The SGIG project has a budget of more than $400 million and includes approximately $7 million related to demonstration projects by two sub recipients. In total, over the next ten years, PECO is planning to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. During 2010, PECO entered into agreements for an AMI network, AMI systems, installation of the first 600,000 meters, and procurement of meters and fiber cable. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE will be used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program under the Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers. The one year program was operational in June 2010. The total anticipated cost of the pilot program is approximately 68 Table of Contents $69 million. The AMI pilot program allows ComEd to study the costs and benefits related to automated metering and to develop the cost estimate of potential full system wide implementation of AMI. In addition, the program allows customers the ability to manage energy use, improve energy efficiency and lower energy bills. Due to an adverse September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court decision, ComEd faces certain cost recovery issues in connection with the pilot program. See Regulatory and Legislative Matters below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on cost recovery issues related to ComEds AMI pilot program. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. As a result of accelerated cash benefits associated with the Tax Relief Act of 2010, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of these contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon expects the $2.1 billion contribution, along with other factors, will increase the pension funded status from 71% at December 31, 2010 to 89% at December 31, 2011, subject to actual 2011 asset returns and final actuarial valuations. The $2.1 billion pension contribution will also decrease 2011 pension costs. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the recent Federal tax legislation allowing for accelerated depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 25, 2010, ComEd replaced its $952 million credit facility with a similar $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that extends to March 25, 2013. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facility, the new facility has higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. Exelons, Generations, and PECOs primary credit facilities largely extend through October 2012. These credit facilities currently provide sufficient liquidity to each of the Registrants. Upon maturity of these credit facilities, Exelon, Generation and PECO may not be able to renew or replace these existing facilities at current terms or commitment levels from banks. Consequently, Exelon, Generation, and PECO may face increased costs for liquidity needs in 2011 and may choose to establish cost effective alternative liquidity sources as appropriate. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities, approximately $6.4 billion, in the first half of 2011. On November 4, 2010, Generation entered into a supplemental credit facility, which provides for an aggregate commitment of up to $300 million. The effectiveness and availability of the credit facility were subject to various conditions, which were satisfied on February 7, 2011. This facility will be primarily used to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this credit facility. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. 69 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. In addition, Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, which includes a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress during the 111th Congress, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. In reaction to the U.S. EPAs proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Air. On July 6, 2010, the U.S. EPA published its proposed Transport Rule, which is the first of a number of significant regulations that the U.S. EPA expects to issue that will impose more stringent requirements relating to air, water and waste controls on electric generating units. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low carbon generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the proposed Transport Rule regulations will increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Exelon filed comments with the U.S. EPA in support of the proposed Transport Rule on October 1, 2010. Extensive comments were filed by the public, both in support of and in opposition to the proposed Transport Rule. The U.S. EPA is reviewing the comments and is scheduled to issue a final rule by the end of the year, to become effective in January 2012. Beginning with the proposed Transport Rule, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals) The U.S. EPA has announced that it will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2011 2012 timeframe for ozone (nitrogen oxide and volatile organic chemicals), particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and lead. This review could result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fired electric generating stations. The U.S. EPA is also preparing a proposed rule for a new HAP standard for electric generating units, which is expected to be finalized in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to install wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became 70 Table of Contents effective on January 2, 2011, and proposed GHG emissions limitations under the New Source Performance Standards scheduled for finalization in May 2012 pursuant to a litigation settlement. Water. Following legal challenges to the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, the rule has been withdrawn and remanded to the U.S. EPA for revisions consistent with the courts decisions. In the interim, Generation has been complying with the requirements of the state permitting agencies, which are administering the rule pursuant to their best professional judgment until a new final rule is issued by the U.S. EPA. On January 7, 2010, the NJDEP issued a draft NPDES permit for Oyster Creek that would have required, in the exercise of its best professional judgment, the installation of cooling towers as the best technology available within seven years after the effective date of the permit. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. In reliance on that announcement, NJDEP determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through the cessation of generation operations. See further discussion of the planned shutdown of Oyster Creek in the Plant Retirements section below. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Exelon anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEds petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. The following table presents the impacts to Exelons and ComEds actual 2010 and estimated 2011 pre tax earnings resulting from the Courts order. (Pre tax in millions) Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 1/1/11 5/31/11 (a) Revenues subject to refund based on Court order (b) $ (17 ) $ (30 ) Reduced pre tax earnings related to Rider SMP (1 ) (7 ) Write off of Rider SMP regulatory asset (4 ) 71 Table of Contents (a) ComEd currently expects new rates will be established in its 2010 distribution rate case no later than June 2011, at which point in time the impacts of the Courts decision should be fully incorporated into ComEds rates. (b) The Court also required the ICC to consider whether an additional three months of net pro forma plant investment, beyond what was approved in the ICC order, should be included in rate base. To the extent the ICC allows ComEd to include an additional three months of net plant additions in its revised rates, the pre tax revenues subject to refund would be reduced by an estimated $12 million in total through the first five months of 2011. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On June 30, 2010, ComEd requested ICC approval for an increase of $396 million to its annual delivery services revenue requirement (2010 Rate Case). On January 3, 2011, ComEd filed surrebuttal testimony which adjusted ComEds requested increase to $326 million to account for recent changes in tax law, corrections, acceptance of limited adjustments proposed by certain parties and the amounts expected to be recovered in the AMI pilot program tariff. The request to increase the annual revenue requirement is to allow ComEd to continue modernizing its electric delivery system and recover the costs of substantial investments made since the last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflects increased costs, most notably pension and OPEB, since ComEds rates were last determined. The requested increase in electric distribution rates would increase the average residential customers monthly electric bill by approximately 5%. In addition, ComEd is requesting future recovery of certain amounts that were previously recorded as expense. If that request is approved, ComEd would reverse the previously expensed costs and establish regulatory assets with amortization over the period during which rate recovery is allowed. As a result, ComEd would recognize a one time benefit of up to $39 million (pre tax) to reverse the prior charges. The requested increase also includes $22 million for increased uncollectible accounts expense. If the rate request is approved, the threshold for determining over/under recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff would be increased by $22 million. The Courts September 30, 2010 ruling in connection with the 2007 Rate Case makes it highly unlikely that the ICC would decide the post test year accumulated depreciation issue in ComEds favor in the 2010 Rate Case. ComEd estimates that its requested revenue requirement increase of $326 million could be reduced by approximately $85 million as a result of this adjustment. Certain parties have submitted testimony recommending significant reductions to ComEds requested increase as well as the write off of certain assets, most notably the regulatory assets associated with severance costs, which was approximately $74 million as of December 31, 2010. Management believes the regulatory asset is appropriate based on the ICCs orders in ComEds last two distribution rate cases. The new electric distribution rates are expected to take effect no later than June 2011. ComEd cannot predict how much of the requested electric distribution rate increase the ICC may approve. See the discussion of ComEds 2007 Rate Case above and in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to the Courts ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the ICC approved ComEds request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding. ComEd Alternative Regulation Pilot Program. On August 31, 2010, ComEd filed with the ICC an alternative regulation pilot proposal as a companion proposal to its 2010 Rate Case under a provision of the Illinois Public Utility Act that contemplates an alternative regulatory structure. Rather than employing the traditional rate setting process in which the utility seeks recovery of costs already incurred, the proposal, if approved, would bring utilities, stakeholders, and the ICC together to develop, review and approve ongoing investment programs before those investments are made. The pilot 72 Table of Contents process would include a flow through mechanism to recover the depreciation and the carrying costs associated with an estimated $130 million in capital investments and $65 million in incremental operating and maintenance expense over a two year period, as incurred. The unrecovered portion of the capital investments would be included in ComEds rate base in its future delivery services rate case filing. The alternative regulatory structure as proposed by ComEd includes an immediate operating and maintenance savings to customers (up to $2 million) and an incentive mechanism for completing the capital investments under budget. This filing includes a request for approval of the alternative regulatory mechanism as well as approval of costs related to electric vehicles, accelerated reinvestment of urban underground facilities and low income assistance. If the mechanism is approved, ComEd would also seek recovery of an estimated $125 million of smart grid investments after the conclusion of the Illinois Statewide Smart Grid Collaborative workshops, the smart grid policy docket and the evaluation of its AMI pilot program. The ICC is scheduled to issue an order by May 28, 2011. Proposed Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. ComEd and other Illinois utilities and legislators are working to develop legislation that would modernize Illinois electric grid. The proposal includes a policy based approach which would provide a more predictable ratemaking system and would enable utilities to modernize the electric grid and set the stage for fostering economic development while creating and retaining jobs. Many other states are changing or are considering changes to the way they regulate utilities in order to improve the predictability of the ratemaking process. The proposed legislation, which was introduced in the Illinois General Assembly on February 8, 2011, includes a process for determining formula rates that would provide for the recovery of actual costs of service that are prudently incurred and reasonable in amount, reflect the utilitys actual capital structure (excluding goodwill), and include a formula for calculating the return on equity component of the cost of capital. The proposed legislation would apply to electric and gas utilities in Illinois on an opt in basis and would not have any effect on the IPA process for energy procurement. If the proposed legislation were to be enacted, ComEd would anticipate adopting a formula rate and investing an additional $2.6 billion in capital expenditures over the next ten years to modernize its system and implement smart grid technology, including improvements to cyber security. These investments would be incremental to ComEds otherwise planned capital expenditures. However, there can be no assurances that the proposed legislation will be enacted into law. 2011 Pennsylvania Electric and Natural Gas Rates. On December 16, 2010, the PAPUC approved the settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case for an increase of $225 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 71% of the $316 million originally requested. The natural gas distribution rate case settlement reflects an increase of approximately $20 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 46% of the $44 million originally requested. The approved electric and natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. In accordance with the DSP Program, PECO has completed four competitive procurements for electric supply for default electric service customers commencing January 2011. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had procured substantially all of the total estimated electric supply needed to serve the residential customer class in 2011. The approved electric distribution rate case settlement and the 2010 electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. The approved natural gas distribution rate case settlement and the estimated 2011 PGC costs will result in an increase of 1% in the average residential customer total natural gas bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. 73 Table of Contents See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case and procurement proceedings. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. This financial reform legislation includes a provision that requires over the counter derivative transactions to be executed through an exchange or centrally cleared. The legislation provides an exemption from mandatory clearing requirements for transactions that are used to hedge commercial risk like those utilized by Generation. At the same time, the legislation includes provisions under which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission may impose collateral requirements for transactions, including those that are used to hedge commercial risk. However, during drafting of the legislation, members of Congress issued a public letter stating that it was not their intention to impose margin and collateral requirements on counterparties that utilize transactions to hedge commercial risk. Final rules on major provisions in the legislation, including new margin requirements, will be established through rulemakings and will not take effect until 12 months after the date of enactment. If deemed a swap dealer, Generation would be required to execute over the counter derivative transactions, except those with qualifying end users that are used to hedge commercial risk, through an exchange or central clearinghouse subject to margin requirements; conversely, if deemed a qualifying end user, Generation could elect not to clear such transactions. Although we believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely, a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales is estimated to require approximately $1 billion of additional collateral. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation establishes a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities will administer an RFP process to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or baseload generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. The pilot program seeks capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MW. The selected generators are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in at zero. Generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. On February 1, 2011, PJM Power Providers Group, of which Generation is a member, filed a complaint asking FERC to revise PJMs MOPR to mitigate this exercise of buyer market power. Generation expects PJM to make a similar filing at FERC. In addition, on February 9, 2011, Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act, (Senate Bill 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. The rate change from 7.3% to 9.5% will result in a one time charge or credit to deferred taxes as the balances must be recalculated at the new corporate tax rates. The Registrants are unable to 74 Table of Contents estimate the impact at this time. Additionally, the rate change will increase Exelons future Illinois state income taxes, net of offsetting Federal benefit, by approximately $25 million in 2011, of which $10 million and $10 million relate to Generation and ComEd, respectively. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The current NRC license for Oyster Creek expires in 2029. In reliance upon Exelons determination to cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, the NJDEP has determined that closed cycle cooling is not the best technology available for Oyster Creek given the length of time that would be required to retrofit from the existing once through cooling system to a closed cycle cooling system and the limited life span of Oyster Creek after installation of a closed cycle cooling system. Based on its consideration of these and other factors, in its best professional judgment, NJDEP has determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through cessation of generation operations. As a result of the announcement to close Oyster Creek by 2019, Generations operating expenses increased by $7 million (pre tax) in 2010 and are estimated to increase approximately $25 $30 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. The impacts to Generations operating expenses in years 2016 through 2019 will be dependent on future capital spending at Oyster Creek. Generation will also make employee retention payments of approximately $20 million in 2011 that are expected to increase operating expenses by approximately $4 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 and Unit 2. PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades will be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those upgrades will be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of the units on the following schedule: Cromby Unit 1 and Eddystone Unit 1 on May 31, 2011; Cromby Unit 2 on December 31, 2011; and Eddystone Unit 2 on June 1, 2012. As a result, on December 14, 2010, Generation reached a proposed settlement with FERC Staff and other intervenors regarding the terms of the reliability must run rate schedule, subject to FERC approval, for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2. Under the proposed settlement, monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2 would be approximately $2 million and $6 million, respectively. In addition, Generation would be reimbursed for variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 75 Table of Contents Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors; and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) then the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for eight of its nuclear units, and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining eleven operating nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG). Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for eight units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license 76 Table of Contents renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $190 million per unit as of December 31, 2010. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2009 CARFR instead of the 2010 CARFR in performing its third quarter ARO update, it would have resulted in a $180 million decrease in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2010 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased $60 million or increased $90 million, respectively. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2010 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 450 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 150 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 210 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 370 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF were to be extended to 2030, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets 77 Table of Contents and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2010; however, adverse regulatory actions that could reduce ComEds allowed long term rate of return on common equity or a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in fair value as of November 1, 2010, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisition of John Deere Renewables on December 9, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing); discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Generation did not record any goodwill related to the acquisition of John Deere Renewables. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level 78 Table of Contents of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one used at the start of the lease. In determining the estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the estimated residual value is lower than at the start of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply 79 Table of Contents for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit and other postretirement plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans and the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification in accordance with authoritative guidance under the fair value hierarchy. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.50%, 8.50% and 8.75% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, 80 Table of Contents respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.83%, 8.10% and 7.80% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The EROA is based on asset allocations at year end. In 2010, Exelon modified its pension investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon plans to decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of risk reducing and return seeking assets. The change in the overall investment strategy will likely lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 8.00% and 7.08% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. For 2012, Exelon projects an EROA of 7.50% and 7.08% for pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 11.9% and 11.6%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.50% and 7.83%, respectively. Those return levels are expected to decrease 2011 and 2012 benefit costs as follows: (dollars in millions) Decrease in 2011Pension Cost Decrease in 2011PostretirementBenefit Cost Decrease in 2012Pension Cost Decrease in 2012PostretirementBenefit Cost 2010 actual asset returns $ (8 ) $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ (7 ) This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential decrease in benefit costs set forth above. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining both the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 5.83% and 6.09%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. 81 Table of Contents The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 5.26% and 5.30% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. In particular, the Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation, which increased its postretirement benefit obligation by $145 million as of December 31, 2010 and increases annual other postretirement benefit costs by approximately $32 million, beginning in 2011. The excise tax is applied to the value of retiree health care benefits in excess of certain thresholds, which increase each year based on the rate of CPI. Therefore, the assumed rate of CPI impacts the extent to which Exelons future retiree health care benefit premiums exceed the thresholds. Exelon assumed an annual CPI of 2.5% in calculating the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, a 50 basis point decrease in the assumed CPI (holding all other assumptions constant) would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $70 million, and a 50 basis point increase in the assumed CPI would have decreased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $65 million. The impact of the excise tax is also dependent on whether pre and post 65 retirees can be aggregated for purposes of calculating the value of health care benefits provided by Exelon. The value of the health care benefits provided to pre 65 employees is greater than the value for post 65 employees because pre 65 employees are not eligible for Medicare. The aggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations reduces the average value of the health care benefits and, therefore, results in less excise tax. Exelon has assumed pre and post 65 retirees will be allowed to be aggregated for purposes of calculating the impact of the excise tax on its other postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010. The disaggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $200 million (holding all other assumptions constant) as of December 31, 2010. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 7.00% at December 31, 2010, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2015. 82 Table of Contents Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions: The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension OtherPostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2010 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (51 ) $ (27 ) $ (78 ) (0.5)% 55 27 82 EROA 0.5% (47 ) (7 ) (54 ) (0.5)% 47 7 54 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 53 53 (1.00)% N/A (43 ) (43 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 20 20 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2010: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (730 ) (229 ) (959 ) (0.5)% 775 243 1,018 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 490 490 (1.00)% N/A (405 ) (405 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 201 201 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.4 years, 12.7 years and 12.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.8 years, 6.8 years and 6.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.0 years, 9.2 years and 9.4 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 83 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of this guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable expectation that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2010, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies, as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. As part of the preparation for the expiration of the PPA with Generation at the end of 2010, PECO has entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative 84 Table of Contents activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium or REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC purchase and sale contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the 85 Table of Contents subsequent RFP process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. 86 Table of Contents Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The Registrants use a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or 87 Table of Contents unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of 88 Table of Contents energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,258 $ (136 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,717 $ (10 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. 89 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 322 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 3,463 2,932 (531 ) 3,572 640 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,562 6,771 (209 ) 7,182 (411 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 2,812 2,938 126 2,717 (221 ) Depreciation and amortization 474 333 (141 ) 274 (59 ) Taxes other than income 230 205 (25 ) 197 (8 ) Total other operating expenses 3,516 3,476 (40 ) 3,188 (288 ) Operating income 3,046 3,295 (249 ) 3,994 (699 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (153 ) (113 ) (40 ) (136 ) 23 Loss in equity method investments (3 ) 3 (1 ) (2 ) Other, net 257 376 (119 ) (469 ) 845 Total other income and deductions 104 260 (156 ) (606 ) 866 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,150 3,555 (405 ) 3,388 167 Income taxes 1,178 1,433 255 1,130 (303 ) Income from continuing operations 1,972 2,122 (150 ) 2,258 (136 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 (20 ) Net income $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 90 Table of Contents Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower realized margins on affiliate and market sales due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains, reduced revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading book and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by additional volumes available for market and retail sales, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations and costs associated with the announced shut down of three coal fired and one dual fossil fired generation unit in Pennsylvania. These actions were a direct result of current and future expected market conditions. Market conditions also contributed to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008, which resulted in higher pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2009. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the favorable results of Exelons company wide cost savings initiative and lower nuclear refueling outage costs. Additionally, due to a significant rebound in the financial markets, Generation experienced strong performance in its NDT funds in 2009. As a result, Generations earnings improved as its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized gains in 2009 compared to significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy 91 Table of Contents and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, other revenue and mark to market activities are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 2,512 $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% $ 2,721 $ (143 ) (5.3 )% Midwest (b) 4,081 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% 4,100 48 1.2 % South and West (131 ) (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% (73 ) (44 ) (60.3 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,462 $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% $ 6,748 $ (139 ) (2.1 )% Trading portfolio 27 1 26 n.m. 106 (105 ) (99.1 )% Mark to market gains 86 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% 452 (271 ) (60.0 )% Other (c)(d) (13 ) (20 ) 7 35.0 % (124 ) 104 83.9 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,562 $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% $ 7,182 $ (411 ) (5.7 )% (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which includes amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation, decommissioning revenues from PECO and fuel sales. (d) In 2010, Other also includes the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation Mid Atlantic (a) 47,517 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% 47,748 118 0.2 % Midwest 92,493 91,804 689 0.8 % 91,594 210 0.2 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (b) 9,436 8,938 498 5.6 % 9,804 (866 ) (8.8 )% Midwest 68 4 64 n.m. 9 (5 ) (55.6 )% South and West 1,213 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% 756 491 64.9 % Purchased power (c) Mid Atlantic 1,918 1,747 171 9.8 % 2,314 (567 ) (24.5 )% Midwest 7,032 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% 8,628 (890 ) (10.3 )% South and West 12,112 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% 15,321 (1,600 ) (10.4 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 58,871 58,551 320 0.5 % 59,866 (1,315 ) (2.2 )% Midwest 99,593 99,546 47 0.0 % 100,231 (685 ) (0.7 )% South and West 13,325 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% 16,077 (1,109 ) (6.9 )% Total supply 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (b) Includes generation in New England. (c) Includes non PPA purchases of 4,681 GWh, 3,535 GWh and 7,384 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% 23,200 (6,370 ) (27.5 )% PECO 42,003 39,897 2,106 5.3 % 40,966 (1,069 ) (2.6 )% Market and retail (c) 124,463 116,338 8,125 7.0 % 112,008 4,330 3.9 % Total electric sales 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP. The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009 and 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. $/MWh 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009% Change 2008 2009 vs. 2008% Change Mid Atlantic (a) $ 42.67 $ 44.03 (3.1 )% $ 45.45 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(b) $ 40.98 $ 41.67 (1.7 )% $ 40.91 1.9 % South and West $ (9.83 ) $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% $ (4.54 ) (72.2 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (c) $ 37.62 $ 38.20 (1.5 )% $ 38.48 (0.7 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to ComEd under its RFP of $288 million (8,218 GWh), $88 million (1,916 GWh) and $29 million (486 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $385 million, $292 million and $(2) million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (c) Excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in less volumes available for market sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $143 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to reduced volumes of sales and unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO, lower realized margins on market sales as well as increased costs of nuclear and fossil fuels. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 93 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $48 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to increased market and retail sales, including additional volumes sold under the ComEd RFP and increased settlements under the ComEd swap. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes sold under the ComEd auction contract due to the expiration of certain tranches and increased nuclear fuel costs. South and West In the South and West, there are certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $44 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and higher fuel costs associated with owned generation. Trading Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The year ended December 31, 2010 includes revenue recorded from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The trading portfolio revenues decreased due primarily to earnings in 2008 from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $94 million in 2009, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $414 million in 2008. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $87 million in 2009 compared to gains of $38 million in 2008. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. 94 Table of Contents Other Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily due to the impacts of $123 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, partially offset by $24 million in lower fuel sales. Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2010, as compared to 2009 and 2008, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2010 2009 2008 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.6 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 17.31 $ 16.07 $ 15.87 (b) (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) Excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs, resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of outage days. For 2009 and 2008, refueling outage days totaled 263 and 241, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 78 and 59, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs, partially offset by lower plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2009 as compared to 2008. 95 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ 223 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 92 Nuclear insurance credits (b) 28 Announced plant shutdowns (c) 24 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (d) (46 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (e) (35 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (f) (26 ) Accounts receivable reserve (g) (22 ) Other (17 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 221 (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008. No premiums were returned for 2009. (c) Reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Primarily reflects the impact of decreased planned and unplanned nuclear outage days in 2009. (e) Primarily reflects the impact of Exelons 2009 cost savings program. (f) Primarily reflects an increased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the Non Regulatory Agreement Units during 2009 as compared to 2008. (g) Reflects the impact of an increase in accounts receivable reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 96 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rate. The change in depreciation rate resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns, which resulted in $32 million of accelerated depreciation expense. Additionally, the change in the estimated useful life of a fossil fired power plant in 2008 resulted in $18 million higher depreciation expense in 2009. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the impact of the reassessment of the useful lives of several other fossil fired facilities in 2008 and reduced depreciation expense associated with the generating assets impaired in 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase was primarily due to a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in interest expense is primarily due to the debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the decrease in interest expense reflects lower interest of $16 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates. Interest on the spent fuel obligation accrues at the 13 week Treasury Rate and is recalculated on a quarterly basis. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, the decrease in interest expense reflects a $16 million increase in capitalized interest during 2009 as compared to 2008. These decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the 97 Table of Contents decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarter of 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase reflects net unrealized gains in 2009 on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units as compared to net unrealized losses in 2008. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the increase reflects the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2009 compared to the contractual elimination of $202 million of income tax benefit in 2008. These increases are partially offset by the impacts of income in 2008 related to the termination of a gas supply guarantee and $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in Other, net for 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 104 $ 227 $ (324 ) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 2 $ (19 ) $ (39 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 37.4%, 40.3% and 33.4%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 98 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 430 $ 6,136 $ (362 ) Purchased power expense 3,307 3,065 (242 ) 3,582 517 Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 2,897 2,709 188 2,554 155 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 975 1,028 53 1,097 69 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 94 63 (31 ) 28 (35 ) Depreciation and amortization 516 494 (22 ) 464 (30 ) Taxes other than income 256 281 25 298 17 Total other operating expenses 1,841 1,866 25 1,887 21 Operating income 1,056 843 213 667 176 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (386 ) (319 ) (67 ) (348 ) 29 Loss in equity method investments (8 ) 8 Other, net 24 79 (55 ) 18 61 Total other income and deductions (362 ) (240 ) (122 ) (338 ) 98 Income before income taxes 694 603 91 329 274 Income taxes 357 229 (128 ) 128 (101 ) Net income $ 337 $ 374 $ (37 ) $ 201 $ 173 (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income is primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. 99 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in ComEds net income was driven primarily by higher revenue net of purchased power expense, reflecting increased distribution rates effective September 16, 2008 due to an ICC rate order, partially offset by a decline in electric deliveries, primarily resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load in 2009. In addition, ComEds increase in net income reflected lower operating and maintenance expenses, lower interest expense, and higher interest income related to the 2009 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflected Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. The initiative included job reductions, for which ComEd recorded a charge for severance expense as a cost to achieve these savings. ComEd also benefited from decreased storm expenses. Operation and maintenance expenses reflected increased pension and other postretirement benefits expenses due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. In the September 2008 rate case ruling, the ICC mandated fixed asset disallowances while allowing certain regulatory assets, which were recorded as a net one time charge in 2008. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to higher plant balances and new depreciation rates which became effective January 1, 2009. ComEd experienced a decrease in interest expense primarily due to lower outstanding debt in 2009. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 66,200 and 53,400 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible Accounts Recovery 59 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 26 Rider SMP Revenues 11 Rate Relief Programs 7 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 11 Total increase $ 188 100 Table of Contents Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8 )% (5.8 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible Accounts Recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs and other programs, and are allowed recovery of the costs of these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. During 2010, ComEd recognized $85 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $59 million in 2009. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rider SMP Revenues In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers via Rider SMP. During 2010, ComEd recognized $11 million of revenue associated with this program. This amount was offset by operating and maintenance expense and depreciation expense of $11 million, which included a $4 million write off of the associated regulatory asset as a result of the September 30, 2010 ruling by the Illinois Appellate Court which denied future recover of ComEds AMI pilot program costs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Rate Relief Programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 101 Table of Contents 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Distribution Pricing $ 214 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 34 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 10 Transmission (26 ) Volume delivery (40 ) Weather delivery (45 ) Other 8 Total increase $ 155 Distribution Pricing The increase in retail electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of distribution pricing in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, reflected the impact of the 2007 Rate Case. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in increased distribution revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008 and are allowed recovery of the costs of 102 Table of Contents these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. In 2009, ComEd recognized $59 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $25 million in 2008. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $8 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2009 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense decreased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2009. This was partially offset by the impact of higher transmission rates effective June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2009, resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume delivery The decrease in revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, in 2009 as compared to 2008, reflected decreased average usage per customer and fewer customers in the ComEd service territory. Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2009 compared to 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,429 6,680 6,362 (3.8 )% 1.1 % Cooling Degree Days 589 828 855 (28.9 )% (31.1 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008. Other Other revenues were higher in 2009 compared to 2008. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, assistance provided to other utilities through mutual assistance programs and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Fringe benefits 5 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Contracting (6 ) Wages and other benefits (7 ) Corporate allocations (8 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (4 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. 104 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense $ 51 Severance 19 Provision for uncollectible accounts (a) 14 Injuries and damages (1 ) Rate Relief Programs (6 ) Corporate allocations (7 ) Fringe benefits (7 ) Wages and salaries (26 ) Contracting and materials (32 ) 2007 Rate Case disallowances (b) (22 ) Storm related costs (40 ) Other (12 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (69 ) (a) Uncollectable accounts expense increased in part as a result of the current overall negative economic conditions, partially mitigated by ComEds increased collection activities in 2009. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred expenses. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the period. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. In 2010, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $85 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $59 million and $4 million, respectively, for 2009. In 2010, expenses related to ComEds AMI pilot program were $5 million. Such amount excludes a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling and $2 million of depreciation expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $59 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $25 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 105 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 16 (a) $ 25 (b) 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances (2 ) Other amortization expense 6 7 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 22 $ 30 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher plant balances. (b) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher plant balances and changes to useful lives of assets based on a depreciation rate study, which became effective January 1, 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Historically, ComEd has recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. ComEd believes it now has sufficient, reliable evidence to record and support an estimated receivable associated with the anticipated refund for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Taxes other than income decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of $9 million of property tax settlements recorded in 2009. These settlements will result in lower rates prospectively. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Uncertain income tax positions remeasurement (a)(f) $ 65 $ (6 ) Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b)(c) 5 (20 ) Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (d) (4 ) 6 Other (e) 1 (9 ) Increase (decrease) in interest expense, net $ 67 $ (29 ) (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In 2008, interest expense included a $7 million charge to reverse previously recognized AFUDC resulting from the January 18, 2008 FERC order granting incentive treatment on ComEds largest transmission project. (c) ComEd Financing II and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were dissolved in 2008. (d) During 2008, ComEd recorded an increase in interest expense of $6 million related to a settlement with the IRS of a research and development claim. (e) Primarily reflects the decrease in interest for short term borrowings in 2009 compared to 2008. (f) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. 106 Table of Contents Other, Net The changes in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (59 ) $ 59 Gain on disposal of assets and investments (5 ) 5 Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 (7 ) Other 2 4 (Decrease) increase in Other, net $ (55 ) $ 61 (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 51.4%, 38.0% and 38.9%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 29,171 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% 28,389 (6.2 )% (1.4 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,904 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% 33,487 (3.7 )% (2.2 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,717 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % 28,809 (7.4 )% (6.7 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,273 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % 1,214 1.9 % 2.0 % Total Retail 91,065 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % 91,899 (5.6 )% (3.3 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 3,438,677 3,425,570 3,438,065 Small commercial & industrial 363,393 360,779 359,026 Large commercial & industrial 2,005 1,985 2,072 Public authorities & electric railroads 5,078 5,008 5,075 Total 3,809,153 3,793,342 3,804,238 107 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,549 $ 3,115 13.9 % $ 3,284 (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,639 1,660 (1.3 )% 1,831 (9.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 397 387 2.6 % 385 0.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 62 57 8.8 % 59 (3.4 )% Total Retail 5,647 5,219 8.2 % 5,559 (6.1 )% Other Revenue (b) 557 555 0.4 % 577 (3.8 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 7.4 % $ 6,136 (5.9 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. Results of Operations PECO 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 208 $ 5,567 $ (256 ) Purchased power and fuel 2,762 2,746 (16 ) 3,018 272 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel (a) 2,757 2,565 192 2,549 16 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 680 640 (40 ) 731 91 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 53 (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,060 952 (108 ) 854 (98 ) Taxes other than income 303 276 (27 ) 265 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 2,096 1,868 (228 ) 1,850 (18 ) Operating income 661 697 (36 ) 699 (2 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (193 ) (187 ) (6 ) (226 ) 39 Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 (16 ) (8 ) Other, net 8 13 (5 ) 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (185 ) (198 ) 13 (224 ) 26 Income before income taxes 476 499 (23 ) 475 24 Income taxes 152 146 (6 ) 150 4 Net income 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 320 $ 349 $ (29 ) $ 321 $ 28 (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 108 Table of Contents Net Income Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income was driven primarily by increased operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense and decreased interest expense, which was partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily related to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009, which were partially offset by reduced electric load. PECOs operating expenses increased as a result of increased scheduled CTC amortization expense and pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. The increased operating expenses were partially offset by decreased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power expense and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. Gas revenues and fuel expense are affected by fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs PGC. Therefore, fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs have no impact on gas revenue net of fuel expense. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf was $7.66, $8.80 and $11.31 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Under PECOs full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010, purchased power costs were based on the energy component of the rates charged to customers. Electric revenues and purchased power expense fluctuate in relation to customer class usage as each customer class was charged a different capped electric generation rate; however, there is no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in customer choice program participation. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 36,600, 21,700 and 24,800 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing 2%, 1% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. Due to PECOs transition to market based procurement of electric supply on January 1, 2011, the number of customers that choose to purchase generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier is expected to increase in the first quarter of 2011 and beyond. 109 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 59 59 Pricing 6 6 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by the lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winter months of 2010 compared to 2009. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Required Programs Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory required programs was due to the recovery of $56 million and $3 million in costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively, which included $6 million related to gross receipts taxes. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required 110 Table of Contents programs during the period. The gross receipts tax revenues are offset by the corresponding gross receipts tax expense included in taxes other than income during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (15 ) $ 3 $ (12 ) CTC recoveries (42 ) (42 ) Gas distribution rate increase 77 77 Volume (41 ) (2 ) (43 ) Pricing 43 43 Other (3 ) (4 ) (7 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (58 ) $ 74 $ 16 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2009 weather conditions in PECOs service territory and gas revenues net of fuel expense were higher due to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory in the winter months of 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2009 and 2008, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,534 4,403 4,638 3.0 % (2.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,246 1,354 1,292 (8.0 )% (3.6 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008 111 Table of Contents CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries was a result of lower delivery volumes due to unfavorable weather conditions and decreased usage across all customer classes. Gas distribution rate increase The increase in gas revenues net of fuel expense reflected increased distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case. Volume The decrease in revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected decreased electric usage per customer across all customer classes as well as decreased gas usage across the small commercial and industrial customer class. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with volume shifts among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Salaries and other benefits 20 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 112 Table of Contents The decrease in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ (97 ) Storm related costs (9 ) Materials and supplies (3 ) Pension and OPEB expense 11 Wages and salaries 5 Severance 3 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (91 ) Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. These expenses consisted of $50 million and $3 million related to energy efficiency and consumer education programs, which began in 2010. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 CTC amortization (a) $ 98 $ 90 Other 10 8 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 108 $ 98 (a) The increase in PECOs scheduled CTC amortization recorded was in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income for 2010 compared to 2009 and in 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 PURTA amortization (a) $ 2 $ 34 Taxes on utility revenues (b) 22 (22 ) Other 3 (1 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 27 $ 11 (a) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offset the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. 113 Table of Contents (b) The increase in tax expense for 2010 compared to 2009 reflected increased gross receipts tax as a result of higher revenue. The decrease in tax expense for 2009 compared to 2008 was due to a gross receipts tax rate reduction that became effective on January 1, 2009. Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the outstanding debt balance owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of interest income recorded in 2009 related to the SSCM settlement. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 31.9%, 29.3% and 31.6%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,913 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % 13,317 (3.2 )% (2.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 8,503 8,397 1.3 % (1.9 )% 8,680 (3.3 )% (2.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 16,372 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % 16,477 (3.8 )% (3.1 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 925 930 (0.5 )% (0.3 )% 909 2.3 % 2.3 % Total Electric Retail 39,713 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % 39,383 (3.3 )% (2.6 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 1,411,643 1,404,416 1,405,532 Small commercial & industrial 156,865 156,305 156,309 Large commercial & industrial 3,071 3,094 3,088 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,102 1,085 1,085 Total 1,572,681 1,564,900 1,566,014 Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $2,069 $1,859 11.3 % $1,918 (3.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,060 1,034 2.5 % 1,053 (1.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,362 1,307 4.2 % 1,406 (7.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 89 90 (1.1 )% 87 3.4 % Total Retail 4,580 4,290 6.8 % 4,464 (3.9 )% Other Revenue (b) 255 259 (1.5 )% 282 (8.2 )% Total Electric Revenues $4,835 $4,549 6.3 % $4,746 (4.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges and a CTC. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 115 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers(in mmcf) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal% Change 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Weather Normal% Change Retail sales 56,833 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % 56,110 1.8 % (1.4 )% Transportation and other 30,911 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % 27,624 (1.5 )% (1.2 )% Total Gas Deliveries 87,744 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % 83,734 0.7 % (1.4 )% As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 448,391 444,923 441,790 Commercial & industrial 41,303 40,991 40,830 Total Retail 489,694 485,914 482,620 Transportation 838 778 646 Total 490,532 486,692 483,266 Gas revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Retail Delivery and Sales Retail sales 656 732 (10.4 )% 795 (7.9 )% Transportation and other 28 30 (6.7 )% 26 15.4 % Total Gas Deliveries 684 762 (10.2 )% 821 (7.2 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $1 billion and $574 million, respectively. The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities in the first half of 2011. The ComEd credit facility extends through March 2013. The Registrants utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. 116 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension plan contributions, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $952 million, $871 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of the $2.1 billion in contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. These cash tax benefits will be realized over the course of 2011. As a result, the Registrants used other short term liquidity sources and ComEds January 2011 $600 million debt issuance, to fund a portion of the contribution on a short term, interim basis until these cash tax benefits are realized. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit claims paid and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute $185 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2011, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $85 million, $58 million and $29 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $203 million and $157 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $10 million and $10 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension contributions. 117 Table of Contents Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2011, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $270 million between 2011 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in the first half of 2011 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for electric transmission and distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, ComEd and PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, ComEd and PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements stipulate that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next electric and natural gas distribution base rate cases. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $170 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See further details regarding the use of the cash generated in the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. 118 Table of Contents The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance 2008 2009 vs. 2008Variance Net income $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,340 3,930 410 3,400 530 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (959 ) (588 ) (371 ) (230 ) (358 ) Income taxes (543 ) (29 ) (514 ) (38 ) 9 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 122 (82 ) 204 (221 ) 139 Option premiums paid, net (124 ) (40 ) (84 ) (124 ) 84 Counterparty collateral received (posted), net (155 ) 196 (351 ) 1,027 (831 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ (850 ) $ 6,551 $ (457 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, net mark to market gains on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ 6,551 Generation 3,032 3,930 4,445 ComEd 1,077 1,020 1,079 PECO 1,150 1,166 969 Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Generation During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net (postings) collections of counterparty collateral of $(1) million, $195 million and $1,029 million, respectively. Net collateral activity is primarily the result of changes in market conditions. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010, $118 million in 2009 and $274 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. 119 Table of Contents During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net payments of approximately $124 million, $40 million and $124 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to Generation (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in payables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $58 million, $(68) million and $141 million, respectively. During 2010, ComEd posted $153 million of cash collateral to PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to Generation primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $1 million, $(43) million and $(12) million, respectively. The 2009 decrease in payables to other energy suppliers is primarily due to an agreement executed in February 2009 between PECO, Generation and PJM that changed the way that PECO and Generation administer their PPA for default service. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon (a)(b) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) $ (3,378 ) Generation (a) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) (1,967 ) ComEd (939 ) (821 ) (958 ) PECO (b) (120 ) (377 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2010, 2009 and 2008 and projected amounts for 2011 are as follows: Projected2011 2010 2009 2008 Generation (c) $ 2,562 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 $ 1,699 ComEd 1,015 962 854 953 PECO 448 545 388 392 Other (d) 18 (64 ) 54 73 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 4,043 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 $ 3,117 120 Table of Contents (a) Includes $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelon Wind. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) Includes nuclear fuel. (d) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 40% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Included in the projected 2011 capital expenditures are a series of planned power uprates across the companys nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 81% and 88% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve company operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as PECOs transmission system reliability upgrades required by PJM related to Generations plant retirements. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth, which for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) $ (2,213 ) Generation (779 ) (1,746 ) (1,470 ) ComEd (179 ) (155 ) (161 ) PECO (811 ) (525 ) (587 ) 121 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fund Generations September 2009 repurchase of variable rate long term tax exempt debt. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. 122 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (a) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (a) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014. ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (a) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to call and refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83 and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 (b) Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 123 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County 1993 Series A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 124 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon Corporate $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities due at various dates Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $10 million scheduled payments of 6.33% notes payable until August 8, 2009 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures due at various dates ComEd $20 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $40 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $42 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $100 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures of ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $154 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 125 Table of Contents (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt control bonds. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduced debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 1,389 $ 1,385 $ 1,335 Generation 1,508 2,276 1,545 ComEd (a) 310 240 PECO 228 316 484 (a) During 2008, ComEd did not pay a dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2011 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2011. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 ComEd $ (155 ) $ 95 $ (310 ) PECO (95 ) (151 ) Other (a) (56 ) 56 Exelon (155 ) (56 ) (405 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ $ 709 $ 1,038 ComEd 429 PECO 709 609 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Generation $ 62 $ 57 $ 86 ComEd 2 8 14 PECO (a) 223 347 320 (a) $180 million, $320 million and $284 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. 126 Table of Contents Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $48 million, $42 million and $130 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2010, 2009 and 2008 include $3 million, $5 million and $60 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.4 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.9 billion was available as of December 31, 2010, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd. Generation also had additional letter of credit facilities that expired in the second quarter of 2010, which were used to enhance variable rate long term tax exempt debt totaling $213 million. Generation repurchased the $213 million of tax exempt bonds during 2010 and has permanently extinguished $24 million of these tax exempt bonds. Generation has the ability to remarket the remaining bonds whenever it determines it to be economically advantageous. Exelon, Generation, PECO and ComEd had access to the commercial paper market during 2010 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. Due to an upgrade in ComEds commercial paper rating in 2010 and improvements in the commercial paper market, ComEd has been able to rely on the commercial paper market as a source of liquidity. ComEd also utilized its credit facility in 2010 to fund its short term liquidity needs and provide credit enhancement for $191 million of variable rate tax exempt bonds. The Registrants routinely review the sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flow from operations, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,156 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.6 billion. The $1,156 million includes $944 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payable and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $212 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $233 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $804 million. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $68 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which are well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $573 million. 127 Table of Contents Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2010, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 46 % 34 % 41 % 40 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 51 57 51 Members equity 66 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2010 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2010: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2010Contributed(Borrowed) PECO $ 31 $ $ BSC 67 (20 ) Exelon Corporate 67 N/A 20 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2010, the Registrants each had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. 128 Table of Contents Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had $577 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $1.1 billion in new money long term debt financing authority. After ComEd issued $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 110, on January 18, 2011, its new money long term debt financing authority with the ICC was reduced to $520 million. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2011 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had retained earnings of $9,304 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,633 million, ComEds retained earnings of $331 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,970 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $522 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 129 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2010 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 12,588 $ 597 $ 1,377 $ 1,827 $ 8,787 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,849 688 1,230 1,056 5,875 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 204 204 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (d) 700 70 131 99 400 Purchase power obligations (e) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 10,041 1,439 2,331 2,223 4,048 Electric supply procurement (f) 1,869 1,252 578 39 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 28 8 6 4 10 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (g) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (h) 738 366 314 53 5 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (i) 12 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Pension minimum funding requirement (j) 1,412 807 243 330 32 Total contractual obligations $ 41,208 $ 5,586 $ 6,770 $ 6,076 $ 22,572 $ 204 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2010, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $204 million and $22 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 130 Table of Contents (i) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (j) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon made an incremental contribution in January 2011, which was contemplated in determining the future years minimum contributions, and may choose to make further additional contributions in future years. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the January 2011 pension contribution. Generation Payment due within (in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ $ 500 $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,204 202 404 352 2,246 Liability and interest for uncertain tax benefits (b) 147 147 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (c) 426 28 52 50 296 Purchase power obligations (d) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 9,470 1,281 2,155 2,099 3,935 Other purchase obligations (f) 409 170 204 32 3 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Total contractual obligations $ 20,379 $ 2,034 $ 3,263 $ 3,328 $ 11,607 $ 147 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. (b) As of December 31, 2010, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $125 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 131 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,231 $ 347 $ 702 $ 277 $ 3,905 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,394 294 490 447 2,163 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 73 73 Operating leases 133 16 28 21 68 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 12 6 6 Electric supply procurement 252 237 15 REC purchase commitments 4 4 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (f) 80 70 9 1 Total contractual obligations $ 10,871 $ 974 $ 1,356 $ 896 $ 7,572 $ 73 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2010, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $73 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECO Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,409 $ 250 $ 675 $ 250 $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,402 129 211 151 911 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 1 1 Operating leases (d) 80 20 40 20 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 571 158 176 124 113 Electric supply procurement (e) 2,746 1,726 971 49 AEC purchase commitments (e) 49 13 18 8 10 Other purchase obligations (f) 134 73 39 19 3 Total contractual obligations $ 7,392 $ 2,369 $ 2,130 $ 621 $ 2,271 $ 1 (a) Includes $184 million due after 2016 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2010, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 132 Table of Contents See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market 133 Table of Contents fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2011 through 2013. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2010 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $33 million, $275 million and $531 million, respectively, for 2011, 2012 and 2013. Power prices sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted in pre tax gains of $27 million due to net mark to market gains of $2 million and realized gains of $25 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $140,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $6,562 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain 134 Table of Contents nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2009 (a) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ $ 907 Total change in fair value during 2009 of contracts recorded in result of operations 137 137 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (24 ) (24 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) (15 ) (15 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,559 ) 267 (1,292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 2,052 (784 ) 1,268 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (515 ) (4 ) 517 (2 ) Changes in collateral (194 ) (194 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 40 40 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (46 ) (46 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications 15 15 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, includes $1 million and $15 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 136 Table of Contents (c) For Generation, includes $371 million and $267 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) For Generation, includes $375 million and $782 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $3 million and $2 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no effective changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts for the remainder of 2010 as the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $971 million, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During 2010 and 2009, this includes $375 million and $782 million of increases related to changes in fair value, respectively, and $371 million and $267 million of decreases, respectively, for reclassifications from regulatory asset to recognize cost in purchased power expense due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2010 ComEd also recorded a $4 million increase in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million and $4 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECOs change in fair value includes $3 million and $2 million related to changes in fair value, respectively, associated with the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation for the remainder of 2010 and the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract beginning January 2011. (f) Includes $73 million and $46 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c) : Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 4 3 3 1 11 Total $ 315 $ 101 $ 36 $ 4 $ $ $ 456 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 25 (11 ) (1 ) (6 ) (7 ) 39 39 Total $ 135 $ 113 $ 59 $ 28 $ (7 ) $ 39 $ 367 137 Table of Contents (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 459 392 139 1 991 Total $ 770 $ 490 $ 172 $ 4 $ $ $ 1,436 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 29 (4 ) 10 3 1 39 Total $ 139 $ 120 $ 70 $ 37 $ 1 $ $ 367 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $975 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd and $5 million gain related to the fair value of the PECO block contracts. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. ComEd Maturities Within FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (450 ) $ (396 ) $ (147 ) $ (9 ) $ (8 ) $ 39 $ (971 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. 138 Table of Contents PECO Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (9 ) (a) Represents PECOs liabilities associated with its block contracts executed under its DSP Program. Includes $5 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2010. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $58 million and $248 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2010 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,495 $ 563 $ 932 1 $ 102 Non investment grade 9 3 6 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 42 5 37 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,547 $ 572 $ 975 1 $ 102 139 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2010 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,238 $ 203 $ 54 $ 1,495 Non investment grade 9 9 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 29 11 2 42 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,277 $ 214 $ 56 $ 1,547 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2010 Financial institutions $ 280 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 515 Other 180 Total $ 975 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2010, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, primarily based 140 Table of Contents upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from S&P, Fitch or Moodys and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. If the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2010, PECOs credit exposure to suppliers under its electric procurement contracts was immaterial. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and management agreements. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had credit exposure of $10 million under its natural gas supply and management contracts. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. 141 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2009, Generation was holding $965 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $12 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $947 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, $6 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2010, ComEd did not hold any cash or letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from any of the suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $20 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2010, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2010, included a $629 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of 142 Table of Contents approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $863 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2010 and 2009 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2010, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2010 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2010, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $410 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 143 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in EXELON CORPORATION General of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. Generation anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 144 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2010, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,563 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $2,707 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.87 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $4.09 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure as discussed below, increased by $172 million primarily due to increased revenues of $201 million at Generation largely related to favorable capacity pricing in the Midwest and Mid Atlantic regions. Exelons results were also affected by the impact of favorable weather conditions of $168 million in the ComEd and PECO service territories and a decrease in costs of $84 million associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation, primarily at Generation. Further, revenues at the utility companies increased by $92 million to recover the costs of regulatory required programs, which are offset in operating expenses, and ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million from customers associated with its uncollectible accounts rider mechanism. Offsetting these favorable impacts were unfavorable market and portfolio conditions of $174 million, increased nuclear fuel costs of $115 million, a reduction of $95 million in mark to market gains from Generations hedging activities in 2010 compared to 2009 and a $57 million impairment of SO2 emissions allowances related to the U.S. EPAs proposed Transport Rule. 63 Table of Contents Operating and maintenance expense decreased by $75 million primarily due to the impact of 2009 activities, including the $223 million impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations in 2009 and reduced stock compensation costs in 2010 of $40 million across the operating companies. Decreased operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by higher costs at the utility companies associated with regulatory required programs of $84 million, which are offset in revenue net of purchased power expense, a 2009 reduction in Generations ARO of $51 million and incremental costs of $42 million related to storms in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $241 million primarily due to increased depreciation expense of $144 million related to ongoing capital expenditures and the change in estimated useful lives associated with the plants subject to shutdowns announced in December 2009 and a scheduled increase in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $98 million in connection with the end of the transition period in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Exelons results were also significantly affected by $120 million in 2009 expenses related to debt extinguishment costs resulting from a 2009 debt refinancing, and by lower net NDT gains of $102 million in 2010 for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of less favorable market performance. Exelon results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were negatively affected by certain income tax related matters. Exelon recorded a non cash charge of $65 million (after tax) in 2010 and a non cash gain of $66 million (after tax) in 2009 for the remeasurement of income tax uncertainties. Exelon also recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,723 million, or $4.12 per diluted share, for the same period in 2009. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 64 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) Earningsper DilutedShare Earningsper DilutedShare Net Income $ 2,563 $ 3.87 $ 2,707 $ 4.09 Illinois Settlement Legislation (a) 13 0.02 66 0.10 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (b) (52 ) (0.08 ) (110 ) (0.16 ) Unrealized Gains Related to NDT Fund Investments (c) (52 ) (0.08 ) (132 ) (0.19 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (d) 50 0.08 34 0.05 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (e) 35 0.05 John Deere Renewables, LLC Acquisition Costs (f) 7 0.01 Asset Retirement Obligation Reduction (g) (7 ) (0.01 ) (32 ) (0.05 ) NRG Energy, Inc. Acquisition Costs (h) 20 0.03 2009 Restructuring Charges (i) 22 0.03 Costs Associated with Early Debt Retirements (j) 74 0.11 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (k) 2 5 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (l) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (m) 65 0.10 (66 ) (0.10 ) Impairment of Certain Generating Assets (n) 135 0.20 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,689 $ 4.06 $ 2,723 $ 4.12 (a) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million and $42 million, respectively). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (b) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $(34) million and $(71) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. (c) Reflects the impact of (gains) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(41) million and $(95) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (d) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation, inventory write downs and severance costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with the planned retirement of four fossil generating units (net of taxes of $32 million and $22 million, respectively). See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (e) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in the third quarter of 2010 as a result of declining market prices since the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with Exelons acquisition of John Deere Renewables, LLC (net of taxes of $4 million) now known as Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in December 31, 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million) and the annual update of Generations decommissioning obligation in 2009 (net of taxes of $(20) million). (h) Reflects external costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2009, associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc., which was terminated in July 2009 (net of taxes of $14 million). (i) Reflects the impact in 2009 of the elimination of management and staff positions (net of taxes of $(14) million). (j) Reflects costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 associated with early debt retirements at Generation and Exelon Corporate (net of taxes of $47 million). 65 Table of Contents (k) Reflects costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1 million and $3 million, respectively). (l) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (m) Reflects the impacts of 2009 and 2010 remeasurements of income tax uncertainties and a 2009 change in state deferred income tax rates (net of taxes on interest expense of $41 million and $23 million). See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. (n) Reflects the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded during the first quarter of 2009 (net of taxes of $87 million). See Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to asset impairments. Outlook for 2011 and Beyond. Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the proposed U.S. EPA Transport Rule and the New Jersey capacity legislation. See Environmental Matters and Regulatory and Legislative Matters sections below for further detail on the Transport Rule and New Jersey capacity legislation, respectively. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place downward pressure on natural gas prices and therefore on wholesale power prices, which would mean a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poorer than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity, and ComEd and PECO are projecting load demand to remain flat in 2011 compared to 2010. Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Although Exelons hedging policies have helped protect Exelons earnings as wholesale market prices have declined, sustained increases in natural gas supply and reserve levels, or a slow recovery of the economy, could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices and in long term sluggish growth in demand. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2011 and 2012. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of 66 Table of Contents expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 will likely result in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA, however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure to commodity price risk through the recovery of procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. During 2009, Generation announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that will result in between 1,300 and 1,500 MW of additional generation capacity within eight years. The uprate projects represent a total investment of approximately $3.65 billion in overnight cost, as measured in 2010 dollars. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 60% of the planned uprate MW, are underway at the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remainder will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2011 and ending in 2017. At 1,500 nuclear generated MW, the uprates would displace 8 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. As part of this periodic review process, the uprate project at Three Mile Island is currently under evaluation. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power 67 Table of Contents increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2010, Generation had added 101 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program, with another 98 MWs scheduled to be added in 2011. Acquisition of John Deere Renewables. On December 9, 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million of which approximately $16 million has been recorded as a current liability and the remainder has been recorded as a noncurrent liability. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. Generation also has the opportunity to pursue approximately 1,200 MWs of new wind projects that are in various stages of development. On September 30, 2010, Generation issued $900 million of senior notes whose proceeds were used to fund the acquisition. The acquisition provides incremental earnings starting in 2012 and cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) have signed a non binding memorandum of understanding to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. The Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. ComEd is expected to lead the building of the Illinois portion of the project. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. These costs are expected to be funded by ComEd, Exelon or an affiliate, ETA and AEP. The ultimate cost of the line will be dependent on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Advanced Metering Infrastructure. On April 22, 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers over the next 10 years. On April 12, 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum allowable grant under the program, for its SGIG project, Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. The SGIG project has a budget of more than $400 million and includes approximately $7 million related to demonstration projects by two sub recipients. In total, over the next ten years, PECO is planning to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. During 2010, PECO entered into agreements for an AMI network, AMI systems, installation of the first 600,000 meters, and procurement of meters and fiber cable. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE will be used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program under the Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers. The one year program was operational in June 2010. The total anticipated cost of the pilot program is approximately 68 Table of Contents $69 million. The AMI pilot program allows ComEd to study the costs and benefits related to automated metering and to develop the cost estimate of potential full system wide implementation of AMI. In addition, the program allows customers the ability to manage energy use, improve energy efficiency and lower energy bills. Due to an adverse September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court decision, ComEd faces certain cost recovery issues in connection with the pilot program. See Regulatory and Legislative Matters below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on cost recovery issues related to ComEds AMI pilot program. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. As a result of accelerated cash benefits associated with the Tax Relief Act of 2010, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of these contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon expects the $2.1 billion contribution, along with other factors, will increase the pension funded status from 71% at December 31, 2010 to 89% at December 31, 2011, subject to actual 2011 asset returns and final actuarial valuations. The $2.1 billion pension contribution will also decrease 2011 pension costs. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the recent Federal tax legislation allowing for accelerated depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 25, 2010, ComEd replaced its $952 million credit facility with a similar $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that extends to March 25, 2013. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facility, the new facility has higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. Exelons, Generations, and PECOs primary credit facilities largely extend through October 2012. These credit facilities currently provide sufficient liquidity to each of the Registrants. Upon maturity of these credit facilities, Exelon, Generation and PECO may not be able to renew or replace these existing facilities at current terms or commitment levels from banks. Consequently, Exelon, Generation, and PECO may face increased costs for liquidity needs in 2011 and may choose to establish cost effective alternative liquidity sources as appropriate. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities, approximately $6.4 billion, in the first half of 2011. On November 4, 2010, Generation entered into a supplemental credit facility, which provides for an aggregate commitment of up to $300 million. The effectiveness and availability of the credit facility were subject to various conditions, which were satisfied on February 7, 2011. This facility will be primarily used to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this credit facility. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. 69 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. In addition, Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, which includes a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress during the 111th Congress, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. In reaction to the U.S. EPAs proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Air. On July 6, 2010, the U.S. EPA published its proposed Transport Rule, which is the first of a number of significant regulations that the U.S. EPA expects to issue that will impose more stringent requirements relating to air, water and waste controls on electric generating units. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low carbon generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the proposed Transport Rule regulations will increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Exelon filed comments with the U.S. EPA in support of the proposed Transport Rule on October 1, 2010. Extensive comments were filed by the public, both in support of and in opposition to the proposed Transport Rule. The U.S. EPA is reviewing the comments and is scheduled to issue a final rule by the end of the year, to become effective in January 2012. Beginning with the proposed Transport Rule, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals) The U.S. EPA has announced that it will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2011 2012 timeframe for ozone (nitrogen oxide and volatile organic chemicals), particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and lead. This review could result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fired electric generating stations. The U.S. EPA is also preparing a proposed rule for a new HAP standard for electric generating units, which is expected to be finalized in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to install wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became 70 Table of Contents effective on January 2, 2011, and proposed GHG emissions limitations under the New Source Performance Standards scheduled for finalization in May 2012 pursuant to a litigation settlement. Water. Following legal challenges to the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, the rule has been withdrawn and remanded to the U.S. EPA for revisions consistent with the courts decisions. In the interim, Generation has been complying with the requirements of the state permitting agencies, which are administering the rule pursuant to their best professional judgment until a new final rule is issued by the U.S. EPA. On January 7, 2010, the NJDEP issued a draft NPDES permit for Oyster Creek that would have required, in the exercise of its best professional judgment, the installation of cooling towers as the best technology available within seven years after the effective date of the permit. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. In reliance on that announcement, NJDEP determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through the cessation of generation operations. See further discussion of the planned shutdown of Oyster Creek in the Plant Retirements section below. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Exelon anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEds petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. The following table presents the impacts to Exelons and ComEds actual 2010 and estimated 2011 pre tax earnings resulting from the Courts order. (Pre tax in millions) Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 1/1/11 5/31/11 (a) Revenues subject to refund based on Court order (b) $ (17 ) $ (30 ) Reduced pre tax earnings related to Rider SMP (1 ) (7 ) Write off of Rider SMP regulatory asset (4 ) 71 Table of Contents (a) ComEd currently expects new rates will be established in its 2010 distribution rate case no later than June 2011, at which point in time the impacts of the Courts decision should be fully incorporated into ComEds rates. (b) The Court also required the ICC to consider whether an additional three months of net pro forma plant investment, beyond what was approved in the ICC order, should be included in rate base. To the extent the ICC allows ComEd to include an additional three months of net plant additions in its revised rates, the pre tax revenues subject to refund would be reduced by an estimated $12 million in total through the first five months of 2011. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On June 30, 2010, ComEd requested ICC approval for an increase of $396 million to its annual delivery services revenue requirement (2010 Rate Case). On January 3, 2011, ComEd filed surrebuttal testimony which adjusted ComEds requested increase to $326 million to account for recent changes in tax law, corrections, acceptance of limited adjustments proposed by certain parties and the amounts expected to be recovered in the AMI pilot program tariff. The request to increase the annual revenue requirement is to allow ComEd to continue modernizing its electric delivery system and recover the costs of substantial investments made since the last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflects increased costs, most notably pension and OPEB, since ComEds rates were last determined. The requested increase in electric distribution rates would increase the average residential customers monthly electric bill by approximately 5%. In addition, ComEd is requesting future recovery of certain amounts that were previously recorded as expense. If that request is approved, ComEd would reverse the previously expensed costs and establish regulatory assets with amortization over the period during which rate recovery is allowed. As a result, ComEd would recognize a one time benefit of up to $39 million (pre tax) to reverse the prior charges. The requested increase also includes $22 million for increased uncollectible accounts expense. If the rate request is approved, the threshold for determining over/under recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff would be increased by $22 million. The Courts September 30, 2010 ruling in connection with the 2007 Rate Case makes it highly unlikely that the ICC would decide the post test year accumulated depreciation issue in ComEds favor in the 2010 Rate Case. ComEd estimates that its requested revenue requirement increase of $326 million could be reduced by approximately $85 million as a result of this adjustment. Certain parties have submitted testimony recommending significant reductions to ComEds requested increase as well as the write off of certain assets, most notably the regulatory assets associated with severance costs, which was approximately $74 million as of December 31, 2010. Management believes the regulatory asset is appropriate based on the ICCs orders in ComEds last two distribution rate cases. The new electric distribution rates are expected to take effect no later than June 2011. ComEd cannot predict how much of the requested electric distribution rate increase the ICC may approve. See the discussion of ComEds 2007 Rate Case above and in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to the Courts ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the ICC approved ComEds request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding. ComEd Alternative Regulation Pilot Program. On August 31, 2010, ComEd filed with the ICC an alternative regulation pilot proposal as a companion proposal to its 2010 Rate Case under a provision of the Illinois Public Utility Act that contemplates an alternative regulatory structure. Rather than employing the traditional rate setting process in which the utility seeks recovery of costs already incurred, the proposal, if approved, would bring utilities, stakeholders, and the ICC together to develop, review and approve ongoing investment programs before those investments are made. The pilot 72 Table of Contents process would include a flow through mechanism to recover the depreciation and the carrying costs associated with an estimated $130 million in capital investments and $65 million in incremental operating and maintenance expense over a two year period, as incurred. The unrecovered portion of the capital investments would be included in ComEds rate base in its future delivery services rate case filing. The alternative regulatory structure as proposed by ComEd includes an immediate operating and maintenance savings to customers (up to $2 million) and an incentive mechanism for completing the capital investments under budget. This filing includes a request for approval of the alternative regulatory mechanism as well as approval of costs related to electric vehicles, accelerated reinvestment of urban underground facilities and low income assistance. If the mechanism is approved, ComEd would also seek recovery of an estimated $125 million of smart grid investments after the conclusion of the Illinois Statewide Smart Grid Collaborative workshops, the smart grid policy docket and the evaluation of its AMI pilot program. The ICC is scheduled to issue an order by May 28, 2011. Proposed Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. ComEd and other Illinois utilities and legislators are working to develop legislation that would modernize Illinois electric grid. The proposal includes a policy based approach which would provide a more predictable ratemaking system and would enable utilities to modernize the electric grid and set the stage for fostering economic development while creating and retaining jobs. Many other states are changing or are considering changes to the way they regulate utilities in order to improve the predictability of the ratemaking process. The proposed legislation, which was introduced in the Illinois General Assembly on February 8, 2011, includes a process for determining formula rates that would provide for the recovery of actual costs of service that are prudently incurred and reasonable in amount, reflect the utilitys actual capital structure (excluding goodwill), and include a formula for calculating the return on equity component of the cost of capital. The proposed legislation would apply to electric and gas utilities in Illinois on an opt in basis and would not have any effect on the IPA process for energy procurement. If the proposed legislation were to be enacted, ComEd would anticipate adopting a formula rate and investing an additional $2.6 billion in capital expenditures over the next ten years to modernize its system and implement smart grid technology, including improvements to cyber security. These investments would be incremental to ComEds otherwise planned capital expenditures. However, there can be no assurances that the proposed legislation will be enacted into law. 2011 Pennsylvania Electric and Natural Gas Rates. On December 16, 2010, the PAPUC approved the settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case for an increase of $225 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 71% of the $316 million originally requested. The natural gas distribution rate case settlement reflects an increase of approximately $20 million in annual service revenue, which is approximately 46% of the $44 million originally requested. The approved electric and natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. In accordance with the DSP Program, PECO has completed four competitive procurements for electric supply for default electric service customers commencing January 2011. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had procured substantially all of the total estimated electric supply needed to serve the residential customer class in 2011. The approved electric distribution rate case settlement and the 2010 electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. The approved natural gas distribution rate case settlement and the estimated 2011 PGC costs will result in an increase of 1% in the average residential customer total natural gas bill on January 1, 2011, above 2010 bills. 73 Table of Contents See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case and procurement proceedings. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. This financial reform legislation includes a provision that requires over the counter derivative transactions to be executed through an exchange or centrally cleared. The legislation provides an exemption from mandatory clearing requirements for transactions that are used to hedge commercial risk like those utilized by Generation. At the same time, the legislation includes provisions under which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission may impose collateral requirements for transactions, including those that are used to hedge commercial risk. However, during drafting of the legislation, members of Congress issued a public letter stating that it was not their intention to impose margin and collateral requirements on counterparties that utilize transactions to hedge commercial risk. Final rules on major provisions in the legislation, including new margin requirements, will be established through rulemakings and will not take effect until 12 months after the date of enactment. If deemed a swap dealer, Generation would be required to execute over the counter derivative transactions, except those with qualifying end users that are used to hedge commercial risk, through an exchange or central clearinghouse subject to margin requirements; conversely, if deemed a qualifying end user, Generation could elect not to clear such transactions. Although we believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely, a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales is estimated to require approximately $1 billion of additional collateral. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation establishes a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities will administer an RFP process to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or baseload generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. The pilot program seeks capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MW. The selected generators are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in at zero. Generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. On February 1, 2011, PJM Power Providers Group, of which Generation is a member, filed a complaint asking FERC to revise PJMs MOPR to mitigate this exercise of buyer market power. Generation expects PJM to make a similar filing at FERC. In addition, on February 9, 2011, Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act, (Senate Bill 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. The rate change from 7.3% to 9.5% will result in a one time charge or credit to deferred taxes as the balances must be recalculated at the new corporate tax rates. The Registrants are unable to 74 Table of Contents estimate the impact at this time. Additionally, the rate change will increase Exelons future Illinois state income taxes, net of offsetting Federal benefit, by approximately $25 million in 2011, of which $10 million and $10 million relate to Generation and ComEd, respectively. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The current NRC license for Oyster Creek expires in 2029. In reliance upon Exelons determination to cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, the NJDEP has determined that closed cycle cooling is not the best technology available for Oyster Creek given the length of time that would be required to retrofit from the existing once through cooling system to a closed cycle cooling system and the limited life span of Oyster Creek after installation of a closed cycle cooling system. Based on its consideration of these and other factors, in its best professional judgment, NJDEP has determined that the existing measures at Oyster Creek represent the best technology available for the facilitys cooling water intake through cessation of generation operations. As a result of the announcement to close Oyster Creek by 2019, Generations operating expenses increased by $7 million (pre tax) in 2010 and are estimated to increase approximately $25 $30 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. The impacts to Generations operating expenses in years 2016 through 2019 will be dependent on future capital spending at Oyster Creek. Generation will also make employee retention payments of approximately $20 million in 2011 that are expected to increase operating expenses by approximately $4 million (pre tax) in each of the years 2011 through 2015. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 and Unit 2. PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades will be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those upgrades will be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of the units on the following schedule: Cromby Unit 1 and Eddystone Unit 1 on May 31, 2011; Cromby Unit 2 on December 31, 2011; and Eddystone Unit 2 on June 1, 2012. As a result, on December 14, 2010, Generation reached a proposed settlement with FERC Staff and other intervenors regarding the terms of the reliability must run rate schedule, subject to FERC approval, for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2. Under the proposed settlement, monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Cromby Unit 2 and Eddystone Unit 2 would be approximately $2 million and $6 million, respectively. In addition, Generation would be reimbursed for variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 75 Table of Contents Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors; and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) then the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for eight of its nuclear units, and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining eleven operating nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG). Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for eight units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license 76 Table of Contents renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $190 million per unit as of December 31, 2010. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2009 CARFR instead of the 2010 CARFR in performing its third quarter ARO update, it would have resulted in a $180 million decrease in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2010 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased $60 million or increased $90 million, respectively. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2010 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 450 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 150 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 210 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 370 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF were to be extended to 2030, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets 77 Table of Contents and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2010; however, adverse regulatory actions that could reduce ComEds allowed long term rate of return on common equity or a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in fair value as of November 1, 2010, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisition of John Deere Renewables on December 9, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing); discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Generation did not record any goodwill related to the acquisition of John Deere Renewables. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level 78 Table of Contents of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one used at the start of the lease. In determining the estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the estimated residual value is lower than at the start of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply 79 Table of Contents for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit and other postretirement plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans and the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification in accordance with authoritative guidance under the fair value hierarchy. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.50%, 8.50% and 8.75% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, 80 Table of Contents respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.83%, 8.10% and 7.80% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The EROA is based on asset allocations at year end. In 2010, Exelon modified its pension investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon plans to decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of risk reducing and return seeking assets. The change in the overall investment strategy will likely lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 8.00% and 7.08% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. For 2012, Exelon projects an EROA of 7.50% and 7.08% for pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 11.9% and 11.6%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.50% and 7.83%, respectively. Those return levels are expected to decrease 2011 and 2012 benefit costs as follows: (dollars in millions) Decrease in 2011Pension Cost Decrease in 2011PostretirementBenefit Cost Decrease in 2012Pension Cost Decrease in 2012PostretirementBenefit Cost 2010 actual asset returns $ (8 ) $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ (7 ) This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential decrease in benefit costs set forth above. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining both the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 5.83% and 6.09%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. 81 Table of Contents The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 5.26% and 5.30% to estimate its 2011 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. In particular, the Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation, which increased its postretirement benefit obligation by $145 million as of December 31, 2010 and increases annual other postretirement benefit costs by approximately $32 million, beginning in 2011. The excise tax is applied to the value of retiree health care benefits in excess of certain thresholds, which increase each year based on the rate of CPI. Therefore, the assumed rate of CPI impacts the extent to which Exelons future retiree health care benefit premiums exceed the thresholds. Exelon assumed an annual CPI of 2.5% in calculating the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, a 50 basis point decrease in the assumed CPI (holding all other assumptions constant) would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $70 million, and a 50 basis point increase in the assumed CPI would have decreased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $65 million. The impact of the excise tax is also dependent on whether pre and post 65 retirees can be aggregated for purposes of calculating the value of health care benefits provided by Exelon. The value of the health care benefits provided to pre 65 employees is greater than the value for post 65 employees because pre 65 employees are not eligible for Medicare. The aggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations reduces the average value of the health care benefits and, therefore, results in less excise tax. Exelon has assumed pre and post 65 retirees will be allowed to be aggregated for purposes of calculating the impact of the excise tax on its other postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010. The disaggregation of pre and post 65 retiree populations would have increased Exelons other postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $200 million (holding all other assumptions constant) as of December 31, 2010. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 7.00% at December 31, 2010, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2015. 82 Table of Contents Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions: The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension OtherPostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2010 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (51 ) $ (27 ) $ (78 ) (0.5)% 55 27 82 EROA 0.5% (47 ) (7 ) (54 ) (0.5)% 47 7 54 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 53 53 (1.00)% N/A (43 ) (43 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 20 20 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2010: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (730 ) (229 ) (959 ) (0.5)% 775 243 1,018 Health care trend rate 1.00% N/A 490 490 (1.00)% N/A (405 ) (405 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealth care trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years N/A 201 201 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.4 years, 12.7 years and 12.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.8 years, 6.8 years and 6.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.0 years, 9.2 years and 9.4 years for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 83 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of this guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable expectation that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2010, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies, as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEd and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. As part of the preparation for the expiration of the PPA with Generation at the end of 2010, PECO has entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative 84 Table of Contents activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium or REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC purchase and sale contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the 85 Table of Contents subsequent RFP process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. 86 Table of Contents Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The Registrants use a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or 87 Table of Contents unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of 88 Table of Contents energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,258 $ (136 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,717 $ (10 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. 89 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Generation $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) ComEd 337 374 (37 ) 201 173 PECO 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Other (a) (70 ) (142 ) 72 (67 ) (75 ) Total $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 322 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 3,463 2,932 (531 ) 3,572 640 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,562 6,771 (209 ) 7,182 (411 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 2,812 2,938 126 2,717 (221 ) Depreciation and amortization 474 333 (141 ) 274 (59 ) Taxes other than income 230 205 (25 ) 197 (8 ) Total other operating expenses 3,516 3,476 (40 ) 3,188 (288 ) Operating income 3,046 3,295 (249 ) 3,994 (699 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (153 ) (113 ) (40 ) (136 ) 23 Loss in equity method investments (3 ) 3 (1 ) (2 ) Other, net 257 376 (119 ) (469 ) 845 Total other income and deductions 104 260 (156 ) (606 ) 866 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,150 3,555 (405 ) 3,388 167 Income taxes 1,178 1,433 255 1,130 (303 ) Income from continuing operations 1,972 2,122 (150 ) 2,258 (136 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 (20 ) Net income $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ (150 ) $ 2,278 $ (156 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 90 Table of Contents Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower realized margins on affiliate and market sales due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains, reduced revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading book and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by additional volumes available for market and retail sales, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations and costs associated with the announced shut down of three coal fired and one dual fossil fired generation unit in Pennsylvania. These actions were a direct result of current and future expected market conditions. Market conditions also contributed to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008, which resulted in higher pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2009. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the favorable results of Exelons company wide cost savings initiative and lower nuclear refueling outage costs. Additionally, due to a significant rebound in the financial markets, Generation experienced strong performance in its NDT funds in 2009. As a result, Generations earnings improved as its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized gains in 2009 compared to significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy 91 Table of Contents and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, other revenue and mark to market activities are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 2,512 $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% $ 2,721 $ (143 ) (5.3 )% Midwest (b) 4,081 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% 4,100 48 1.2 % South and West (131 ) (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% (73 ) (44 ) (60.3 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,462 $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% $ 6,748 $ (139 ) (2.1 )% Trading portfolio 27 1 26 n.m. 106 (105 ) (99.1 )% Mark to market gains 86 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% 452 (271 ) (60.0 )% Other (c)(d) (13 ) (20 ) 7 35.0 % (124 ) 104 83.9 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,562 $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% $ 7,182 $ (411 ) (5.7 )% (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which includes amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation, decommissioning revenues from PECO and fuel sales. (d) In 2010, Other also includes the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation Mid Atlantic (a) 47,517 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% 47,748 118 0.2 % Midwest 92,493 91,804 689 0.8 % 91,594 210 0.2 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (b) 9,436 8,938 498 5.6 % 9,804 (866 ) (8.8 )% Midwest 68 4 64 n.m. 9 (5 ) (55.6 )% South and West 1,213 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% 756 491 64.9 % Purchased power (c) Mid Atlantic 1,918 1,747 171 9.8 % 2,314 (567 ) (24.5 )% Midwest 7,032 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% 8,628 (890 ) (10.3 )% South and West 12,112 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% 15,321 (1,600 ) (10.4 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 58,871 58,551 320 0.5 % 59,866 (1,315 ) (2.2 )% Midwest 99,593 99,546 47 0.0 % 100,231 (685 ) (0.7 )% South and West 13,325 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% 16,077 (1,109 ) (6.9 )% Total supply 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (b) Includes generation in New England. (c) Includes non PPA purchases of 4,681 GWh, 3,535 GWh and 7,384 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% 23,200 (6,370 ) (27.5 )% PECO 42,003 39,897 2,106 5.3 % 40,966 (1,069 ) (2.6 )% Market and retail (c) 124,463 116,338 8,125 7.0 % 112,008 4,330 3.9 % Total electric sales 171,789 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP. The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009 and 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. $/MWh 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009% Change 2008 2009 vs. 2008% Change Mid Atlantic (a) $ 42.67 $ 44.03 (3.1 )% $ 45.45 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(b) $ 40.98 $ 41.67 (1.7 )% $ 40.91 1.9 % South and West $ (9.83 ) $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% $ (4.54 ) (72.2 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (c) $ 37.62 $ 38.20 (1.5 )% $ 38.48 (0.7 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to ComEd under its RFP of $288 million (8,218 GWh), $88 million (1,916 GWh) and $29 million (486 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $385 million, $292 million and $(2) million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (c) Excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in less volumes available for market sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $143 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to reduced volumes of sales and unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO, lower realized margins on market sales as well as increased costs of nuclear and fossil fuels. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 93 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $48 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to increased market and retail sales, including additional volumes sold under the ComEd RFP and increased settlements under the ComEd swap. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes sold under the ComEd auction contract due to the expiration of certain tranches and increased nuclear fuel costs. South and West In the South and West, there are certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The $44 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and higher fuel costs associated with owned generation. Trading Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The year ended December 31, 2010 includes revenue recorded from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The trading portfolio revenues decreased due primarily to earnings in 2008 from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $94 million in 2009, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $414 million in 2008. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $87 million in 2009 compared to gains of $38 million in 2008. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains associated with mark to market derivatives. 94 Table of Contents Other Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge for the ARP SO2 allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily due to the impacts of $123 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, partially offset by $24 million in lower fuel sales. Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2010, as compared to 2009 and 2008, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2010 2009 2008 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.6 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 17.31 $ 16.07 $ 15.87 (b) (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) Excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs, resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of outage days. For 2009 and 2008, refueling outage days totaled 263 and 241, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 78 and 59, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs, partially offset by lower plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2009 as compared to 2008. 95 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ 223 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 92 Nuclear insurance credits (b) 28 Announced plant shutdowns (c) 24 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (d) (46 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (e) (35 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (f) (26 ) Accounts receivable reserve (g) (22 ) Other (17 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 221 (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008. No premiums were returned for 2009. (c) Reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Primarily reflects the impact of decreased planned and unplanned nuclear outage days in 2009. (e) Primarily reflects the impact of Exelons 2009 cost savings program. (f) Primarily reflects an increased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the Non Regulatory Agreement Units during 2009 as compared to 2008. (g) Reflects the impact of an increase in accounts receivable reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 96 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rate. The change in depreciation rate resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns, which resulted in $32 million of accelerated depreciation expense. Additionally, the change in the estimated useful life of a fossil fired power plant in 2008 resulted in $18 million higher depreciation expense in 2009. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the impact of the reassessment of the useful lives of several other fossil fired facilities in 2008 and reduced depreciation expense associated with the generating assets impaired in 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase was primarily due to a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the increase in interest expense is primarily due to the debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the decrease in interest expense reflects lower interest of $16 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates. Interest on the spent fuel obligation accrues at the 13 week Treasury Rate and is recalculated on a quarterly basis. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, the decrease in interest expense reflects a $16 million increase in capitalized interest during 2009 as compared to 2008. These decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. For 2010 as compared to 2009, the decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the 97 Table of Contents decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarter of 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase reflects net unrealized gains in 2009 on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units as compared to net unrealized losses in 2008. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the increase reflects the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2009 compared to the contractual elimination of $202 million of income tax benefit in 2008. These increases are partially offset by the impacts of income in 2008 related to the termination of a gas supply guarantee and $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in Other, net for 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 104 $ 227 $ (324 ) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 2 $ (19 ) $ (39 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 37.4%, 40.3% and 33.4%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 98 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 430 $ 6,136 $ (362 ) Purchased power expense 3,307 3,065 (242 ) 3,582 517 Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 2,897 2,709 188 2,554 155 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 975 1,028 53 1,097 69 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 94 63 (31 ) 28 (35 ) Depreciation and amortization 516 494 (22 ) 464 (30 ) Taxes other than income 256 281 25 298 17 Total other operating expenses 1,841 1,866 25 1,887 21 Operating income 1,056 843 213 667 176 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (386 ) (319 ) (67 ) (348 ) 29 Loss in equity method investments (8 ) 8 Other, net 24 79 (55 ) 18 61 Total other income and deductions (362 ) (240 ) (122 ) (338 ) 98 Income before income taxes 694 603 91 329 274 Income taxes 357 229 (128 ) 128 (101 ) Net income $ 337 $ 374 $ (37 ) $ 201 $ 173 (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income is primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. 99 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in ComEds net income was driven primarily by higher revenue net of purchased power expense, reflecting increased distribution rates effective September 16, 2008 due to an ICC rate order, partially offset by a decline in electric deliveries, primarily resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load in 2009. In addition, ComEds increase in net income reflected lower operating and maintenance expenses, lower interest expense, and higher interest income related to the 2009 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflected Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. The initiative included job reductions, for which ComEd recorded a charge for severance expense as a cost to achieve these savings. ComEd also benefited from decreased storm expenses. Operation and maintenance expenses reflected increased pension and other postretirement benefits expenses due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. In the September 2008 rate case ruling, the ICC mandated fixed asset disallowances while allowing certain regulatory assets, which were recorded as a net one time charge in 2008. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to higher plant balances and new depreciation rates which became effective January 1, 2009. ComEd experienced a decrease in interest expense primarily due to lower outstanding debt in 2009. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 66,200 and 53,400 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible Accounts Recovery 59 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 26 Rider SMP Revenues 11 Rate Relief Programs 7 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 11 Total increase $ 188 100 Table of Contents Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8 )% (5.8 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible Accounts Recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs and other programs, and are allowed recovery of the costs of these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. During 2010, ComEd recognized $85 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $59 million in 2009. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rider SMP Revenues In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers via Rider SMP. During 2010, ComEd recognized $11 million of revenue associated with this program. This amount was offset by operating and maintenance expense and depreciation expense of $11 million, which included a $4 million write off of the associated regulatory asset as a result of the September 30, 2010 ruling by the Illinois Appellate Court which denied future recover of ComEds AMI pilot program costs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Rate Relief Programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 101 Table of Contents 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues Subject to Refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Distribution Pricing $ 214 Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 34 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 10 Transmission (26 ) Volume delivery (40 ) Weather delivery (45 ) Other 8 Total increase $ 155 Distribution Pricing The increase in retail electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of distribution pricing in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, reflected the impact of the 2007 Rate Case. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in increased distribution revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008 and are allowed recovery of the costs of 102 Table of Contents these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. In 2009, ComEd recognized $59 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $25 million in 2008. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $8 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2009 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense decreased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2009. This was partially offset by the impact of higher transmission rates effective June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2009, resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume delivery The decrease in revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, in 2009 as compared to 2008, reflected decreased average usage per customer and fewer customers in the ComEd service territory. Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2009 compared to 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,429 6,680 6,362 (3.8 )% 1.1 % Cooling Degree Days 589 828 855 (28.9 )% (31.1 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008. Other Other revenues were higher in 2009 compared to 2008. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, assistance provided to other utilities through mutual assistance programs and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Fringe benefits 5 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Contracting (6 ) Wages and other benefits (7 ) Corporate allocations (8 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (4 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. 104 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense $ 51 Severance 19 Provision for uncollectible accounts (a) 14 Injuries and damages (1 ) Rate Relief Programs (6 ) Corporate allocations (7 ) Fringe benefits (7 ) Wages and salaries (26 ) Contracting and materials (32 ) 2007 Rate Case disallowances (b) (22 ) Storm related costs (40 ) Other (12 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (69 ) (a) Uncollectable accounts expense increased in part as a result of the current overall negative economic conditions, partially mitigated by ComEds increased collection activities in 2009. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred expenses. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the period. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. In 2010, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $85 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $59 million and $4 million, respectively, for 2009. In 2010, expenses related to ComEds AMI pilot program were $5 million. Such amount excludes a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling and $2 million of depreciation expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $59 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $25 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 105 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 16 (a) $ 25 (b) 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances (2 ) Other amortization expense 6 7 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 22 $ 30 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher plant balances. (b) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher plant balances and changes to useful lives of assets based on a depreciation rate study, which became effective January 1, 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Historically, ComEd has recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. ComEd believes it now has sufficient, reliable evidence to record and support an estimated receivable associated with the anticipated refund for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Taxes other than income decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of $9 million of property tax settlements recorded in 2009. These settlements will result in lower rates prospectively. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Uncertain income tax positions remeasurement (a)(f) $ 65 $ (6 ) Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b)(c) 5 (20 ) Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (d) (4 ) 6 Other (e) 1 (9 ) Increase (decrease) in interest expense, net $ 67 $ (29 ) (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In 2008, interest expense included a $7 million charge to reverse previously recognized AFUDC resulting from the January 18, 2008 FERC order granting incentive treatment on ComEds largest transmission project. (c) ComEd Financing II and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were dissolved in 2008. (d) During 2008, ComEd recorded an increase in interest expense of $6 million related to a settlement with the IRS of a research and development claim. (e) Primarily reflects the decrease in interest for short term borrowings in 2009 compared to 2008. (f) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. 106 Table of Contents Other, Net The changes in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (59 ) $ 59 Gain on disposal of assets and investments (5 ) 5 Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 (7 ) Other 2 4 (Decrease) increase in Other, net $ (55 ) $ 61 (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 51.4%, 38.0% and 38.9%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 29,171 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% 28,389 (6.2 )% (1.4 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,904 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% 33,487 (3.7 )% (2.2 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,717 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % 28,809 (7.4 )% (6.7 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,273 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % 1,214 1.9 % 2.0 % Total Retail 91,065 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % 91,899 (5.6 )% (3.3 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 3,438,677 3,425,570 3,438,065 Small commercial & industrial 363,393 360,779 359,026 Large commercial & industrial 2,005 1,985 2,072 Public authorities & electric railroads 5,078 5,008 5,075 Total 3,809,153 3,793,342 3,804,238 107 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs2009 2008 % Change2009 vs2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,549 $ 3,115 13.9 % $ 3,284 (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,639 1,660 (1.3 )% 1,831 (9.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 397 387 2.6 % 385 0.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 62 57 8.8 % 59 (3.4 )% Total Retail 5,647 5,219 8.2 % 5,559 (6.1 )% Other Revenue (b) 557 555 0.4 % 577 (3.8 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 6,204 $ 5,774 7.4 % $ 6,136 (5.9 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. Results of Operations PECO 2010 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance Operating revenues $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 208 $ 5,567 $ (256 ) Purchased power and fuel 2,762 2,746 (16 ) 3,018 272 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel (a) 2,757 2,565 192 2,549 16 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 680 640 (40 ) 731 91 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 53 (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,060 952 (108 ) 854 (98 ) Taxes other than income 303 276 (27 ) 265 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 2,096 1,868 (228 ) 1,850 (18 ) Operating income 661 697 (36 ) 699 (2 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (193 ) (187 ) (6 ) (226 ) 39 Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 (16 ) (8 ) Other, net 8 13 (5 ) 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (185 ) (198 ) 13 (224 ) 26 Income before income taxes 476 499 (23 ) 475 24 Income taxes 152 146 (6 ) 150 4 Net income 324 353 (29 ) 325 28 Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 320 $ 349 $ (29 ) $ 321 $ 28 (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 108 Table of Contents Net Income Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income was driven primarily by increased operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense and decreased interest expense, which was partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily related to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009, which were partially offset by reduced electric load. PECOs operating expenses increased as a result of increased scheduled CTC amortization expense and pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. The increased operating expenses were partially offset by decreased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power expense and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. Gas revenues and fuel expense are affected by fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs PGC. Therefore, fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs have no impact on gas revenue net of fuel expense. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf was $7.66, $8.80 and $11.31 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Under PECOs full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010, purchased power costs were based on the energy component of the rates charged to customers. Electric revenues and purchased power expense fluctuate in relation to customer class usage as each customer class was charged a different capped electric generation rate; however, there is no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in customer choice program participation. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 36,600, 21,700 and 24,800 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing 2%, 1% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. Due to PECOs transition to market based procurement of electric supply on January 1, 2011, the number of customers that choose to purchase generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier is expected to increase in the first quarter of 2011 and beyond. 109 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 59 59 Pricing 6 6 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by the lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winter months of 2010 compared to 2009. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Required Programs Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory required programs was due to the recovery of $56 million and $3 million in costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively, which included $6 million related to gross receipts taxes. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required 110 Table of Contents programs during the period. The gross receipts tax revenues are offset by the corresponding gross receipts tax expense included in taxes other than income during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (15 ) $ 3 $ (12 ) CTC recoveries (42 ) (42 ) Gas distribution rate increase 77 77 Volume (41 ) (2 ) (43 ) Pricing 43 43 Other (3 ) (4 ) (7 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (58 ) $ 74 $ 16 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2009 weather conditions in PECOs service territory and gas revenues net of fuel expense were higher due to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory in the winter months of 2008. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2009 and 2008, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2009 2008 Normal From 2008 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,534 4,403 4,638 3.0 % (2.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,246 1,354 1,292 (8.0 )% (3.6 )% (a) Reflects the impact of the leap year day in 2008 111 Table of Contents CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries was a result of lower delivery volumes due to unfavorable weather conditions and decreased usage across all customer classes. Gas distribution rate increase The increase in gas revenues net of fuel expense reflected increased distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case. Volume The decrease in revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected decreased electric usage per customer across all customer classes as well as decreased gas usage across the small commercial and industrial customer class. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with volume shifts among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Salaries and other benefits 20 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 112 Table of Contents The decrease in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ (97 ) Storm related costs (9 ) Materials and supplies (3 ) Pension and OPEB expense 11 Wages and salaries 5 Severance 3 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (91 ) Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. These expenses consisted of $50 million and $3 million related to energy efficiency and consumer education programs, which began in 2010. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 CTC amortization (a) $ 98 $ 90 Other 10 8 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 108 $ 98 (a) The increase in PECOs scheduled CTC amortization recorded was in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income for 2010 compared to 2009 and in 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 PURTA amortization (a) $ 2 $ 34 Taxes on utility revenues (b) 22 (22 ) Other 3 (1 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 27 $ 11 (a) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offset the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. 113 Table of Contents (b) The increase in tax expense for 2010 compared to 2009 reflected increased gross receipts tax as a result of higher revenue. The decrease in tax expense for 2009 compared to 2008 was due to a gross receipts tax rate reduction that became effective on January 1, 2009. Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the outstanding debt balance owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of interest income recorded in 2009 related to the SSCM settlement. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 31.9%, 29.3% and 31.6%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal %Change 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,913 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % 13,317 (3.2 )% (2.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 8,503 8,397 1.3 % (1.9 )% 8,680 (3.3 )% (2.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 16,372 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % 16,477 (3.8 )% (3.1 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 925 930 (0.5 )% (0.3 )% 909 2.3 % 2.3 % Total Electric Retail 39,713 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % 39,383 (3.3 )% (2.6 )% As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 1,411,643 1,404,416 1,405,532 Small commercial & industrial 156,865 156,305 156,309 Large commercial & industrial 3,071 3,094 3,088 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,102 1,085 1,085 Total 1,572,681 1,564,900 1,566,014 Electric Revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs.2009 2008 % Change2009 vs.2008 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $2,069 $1,859 11.3 % $1,918 (3.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,060 1,034 2.5 % 1,053 (1.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,362 1,307 4.2 % 1,406 (7.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 89 90 (1.1 )% 87 3.4 % Total Retail 4,580 4,290 6.8 % 4,464 (3.9 )% Other Revenue (b) 255 259 (1.5 )% 282 (8.2 )% Total Electric Revenues $4,835 $4,549 6.3 % $4,746 (4.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges and a CTC. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 115 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers(in mmcf) 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal% Change 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Weather Normal% Change Retail sales 56,833 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % 56,110 1.8 % (1.4 )% Transportation and other 30,911 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % 27,624 (1.5 )% (1.2 )% Total Gas Deliveries 87,744 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % 83,734 0.7 % (1.4 )% As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2010 2009 2008 Residential 448,391 444,923 441,790 Commercial & industrial 41,303 40,991 40,830 Total Retail 489,694 485,914 482,620 Transportation 838 778 646 Total 490,532 486,692 483,266 Gas revenue 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 Retail Delivery and Sales Retail sales 656 732 (10.4 )% 795 (7.9 )% Transportation and other 28 30 (6.7 )% 26 15.4 % Total Gas Deliveries 684 762 (10.2 )% 821 (7.2 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $1 billion and $574 million, respectively. The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO. Exelon anticipates refinancing these credit facilities in the first half of 2011. The ComEd credit facility extends through March 2013. The Registrants utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. 116 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011, representing all currently planned 2011 qualified pension plan contributions, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $952 million, $871 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 pension contributions. Exelons planned funding of the $2.1 billion in contributions includes $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. These cash tax benefits will be realized over the course of 2011. As a result, the Registrants used other short term liquidity sources and ComEds January 2011 $600 million debt issuance, to fund a portion of the contribution on a short term, interim basis until these cash tax benefits are realized. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit claims paid and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute $185 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2011, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $85 million, $58 million and $29 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $203 million and $157 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $10 million and $10 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2010 and 2009 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension contributions. 117 Table of Contents Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2011, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $270 million between 2011 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in the first half of 2011 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for electric transmission and distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, ComEd and PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, ComEd and PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements stipulate that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next electric and natural gas distribution base rate cases. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $170 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See further details regarding the use of the cash generated in the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. 118 Table of Contents The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance 2008 2009 vs. 2008Variance Net income $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ (144 ) $ 2,737 $ (30 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,340 3,930 410 3,400 530 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (959 ) (588 ) (371 ) (230 ) (358 ) Income taxes (543 ) (29 ) (514 ) (38 ) 9 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 122 (82 ) 204 (221 ) 139 Option premiums paid, net (124 ) (40 ) (84 ) (124 ) 84 Counterparty collateral received (posted), net (155 ) 196 (351 ) 1,027 (831 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ (850 ) $ 6,551 $ (457 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, net mark to market gains on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 5,244 $ 6,094 $ 6,551 Generation 3,032 3,930 4,445 ComEd 1,077 1,020 1,079 PECO 1,150 1,166 969 Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Generation During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net (postings) collections of counterparty collateral of $(1) million, $195 million and $1,029 million, respectively. Net collateral activity is primarily the result of changes in market conditions. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010, $118 million in 2009 and $274 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. 119 Table of Contents During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Generation had net payments of approximately $124 million, $40 million and $124 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to Generation (decreased) increased by $(65) million, $(28) million and $134 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in payables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $58 million, $(68) million and $141 million, respectively. During 2010, ComEd posted $153 million of cash collateral to PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to Generation primarily due to the PPA increased by $74 million, $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $1 million, $(43) million and $(12) million, respectively. The 2009 decrease in payables to other energy suppliers is primarily due to an agreement executed in February 2009 between PECO, Generation and PJM that changed the way that PECO and Generation administer their PPA for default service. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon (a)(b) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) $ (3,378 ) Generation (a) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) (1,967 ) ComEd (939 ) (821 ) (958 ) PECO (b) (120 ) (377 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2010, 2009 and 2008 and projected amounts for 2011 are as follows: Projected2011 2010 2009 2008 Generation (c) $ 2,562 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 $ 1,699 ComEd 1,015 962 854 953 PECO 448 545 388 392 Other (d) 18 (64 ) 54 73 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 4,043 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 $ 3,117 120 Table of Contents (a) Includes $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelon Wind. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) Includes nuclear fuel. (d) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 40% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Included in the projected 2011 capital expenditures are a series of planned power uprates across the companys nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 81% and 88% of the projected 2011 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve company operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as PECOs transmission system reliability upgrades required by PJM related to Generations plant retirements. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth, which for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) $ (2,213 ) Generation (779 ) (1,746 ) (1,470 ) ComEd (179 ) (155 ) (161 ) PECO (811 ) (525 ) (587 ) 121 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fund Generations September 2009 repurchase of variable rate long term tax exempt debt. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. 122 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (a) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (a) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014. ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (a) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to call and refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83 and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 (b) Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 123 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County 1993 Series A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 124 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon Corporate $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities due at various dates Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $10 million scheduled payments of 6.33% notes payable until August 8, 2009 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures due at various dates ComEd $20 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $40 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $42 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $100 million of tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures of ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $154 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 125 Table of Contents (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt control bonds. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduced debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ 1,389 $ 1,385 $ 1,335 Generation 1,508 2,276 1,545 ComEd (a) 310 240 PECO 228 316 484 (a) During 2008, ComEd did not pay a dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2011 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2011. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 ComEd $ (155 ) $ 95 $ (310 ) PECO (95 ) (151 ) Other (a) (56 ) 56 Exelon (155 ) (56 ) (405 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Exelon $ $ 709 $ 1,038 ComEd 429 PECO 709 609 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2010, 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Generation $ 62 $ 57 $ 86 ComEd 2 8 14 PECO (a) 223 347 320 (a) $180 million, $320 million and $284 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. 126 Table of Contents Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $48 million, $42 million and $130 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2010, 2009 and 2008 include $3 million, $5 million and $60 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.4 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.9 billion was available as of December 31, 2010, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd. Generation also had additional letter of credit facilities that expired in the second quarter of 2010, which were used to enhance variable rate long term tax exempt debt totaling $213 million. Generation repurchased the $213 million of tax exempt bonds during 2010 and has permanently extinguished $24 million of these tax exempt bonds. Generation has the ability to remarket the remaining bonds whenever it determines it to be economically advantageous. Exelon, Generation, PECO and ComEd had access to the commercial paper market during 2010 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. Due to an upgrade in ComEds commercial paper rating in 2010 and improvements in the commercial paper market, ComEd has been able to rely on the commercial paper market as a source of liquidity. ComEd also utilized its credit facility in 2010 to fund its short term liquidity needs and provide credit enhancement for $191 million of variable rate tax exempt bonds. The Registrants routinely review the sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flow from operations, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,156 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.6 billion. The $1,156 million includes $944 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payable and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $212 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $233 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $804 million. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $68 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which are well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $573 million. 127 Table of Contents Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2010, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 46 % 34 % 41 % 40 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 51 57 51 Members equity 66 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2010 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2010: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2010Contributed(Borrowed) PECO $ 31 $ $ BSC 67 (20 ) Exelon Corporate 67 N/A 20 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2010, the Registrants each had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. 128 Table of Contents Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had $577 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $1.1 billion in new money long term debt financing authority. After ComEd issued $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 110, on January 18, 2011, its new money long term debt financing authority with the ICC was reduced to $520 million. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2011 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had retained earnings of $9,304 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,633 million, ComEds retained earnings of $331 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,970 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $522 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 129 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2010 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 12,588 $ 597 $ 1,377 $ 1,827 $ 8,787 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,849 688 1,230 1,056 5,875 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 204 204 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (d) 700 70 131 99 400 Purchase power obligations (e) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 10,041 1,439 2,331 2,223 4,048 Electric supply procurement (f) 1,869 1,252 578 39 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 28 8 6 4 10 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (g) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (h) 738 366 314 53 5 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (i) 12 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Pension minimum funding requirement (j) 1,412 807 243 330 32 Total contractual obligations $ 41,208 $ 5,586 $ 6,770 $ 6,076 $ 22,572 $ 204 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2010, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $204 million and $22 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 130 Table of Contents (i) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (j) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon made an incremental contribution in January 2011, which was contemplated in determining the future years minimum contributions, and may choose to make further additional contributions in future years. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the January 2011 pension contribution. Generation Payment due within (in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ $ 500 $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,204 202 404 352 2,246 Liability and interest for uncertain tax benefits (b) 147 147 Capital leases 36 2 6 7 21 Operating leases (c) 426 28 52 50 296 Purchase power obligations (d) 2,021 351 442 288 940 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 9,470 1,281 2,155 2,099 3,935 Other purchase obligations (f) 409 170 204 32 3 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,018 1,018 Total contractual obligations $ 20,379 $ 2,034 $ 3,263 $ 3,328 $ 11,607 $ 147 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. (b) As of December 31, 2010, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $125 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 131 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,231 $ 347 $ 702 $ 277 $ 3,905 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,394 294 490 447 2,163 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 73 73 Operating leases 133 16 28 21 68 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 12 6 6 Electric supply procurement 252 237 15 REC purchase commitments 4 4 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 106 150 1,436 Other purchase obligations (f) 80 70 9 1 Total contractual obligations $ 10,871 $ 974 $ 1,356 $ 896 $ 7,572 $ 73 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2010. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2010, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $73 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECO Payment due within Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Due 2016and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,409 $ 250 $ 675 $ 250 $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,402 129 211 151 911 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 1 1 Operating leases (d) 80 20 40 20 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 571 158 176 124 113 Electric supply procurement (e) 2,746 1,726 971 49 AEC purchase commitments (e) 49 13 18 8 10 Other purchase obligations (f) 134 73 39 19 3 Total contractual obligations $ 7,392 $ 2,369 $ 2,130 $ 621 $ 2,271 $ 1 (a) Includes $184 million due after 2016 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2010 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2010, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 132 Table of Contents See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market 133 Table of Contents fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2011 through 2013. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 90% 93%, 67% 70% and 32% 35% for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2010 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $33 million, $275 million and $531 million, respectively, for 2011, 2012 and 2013. Power prices sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 3,625 GWh, 7,578 GWh and 8,891 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted in pre tax gains of $27 million due to net mark to market gains of $2 million and realized gains of $25 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $140,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $6,562 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain 134 Table of Contents nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 57% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2011 through 2015 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2009 (a) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ $ 907 Total change in fair value during 2009 of contracts recorded in result of operations 137 137 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (24 ) (24 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) (15 ) (15 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,559 ) 267 (1,292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 2,052 (784 ) 1,268 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (515 ) (4 ) 517 (2 ) Changes in collateral (194 ) (194 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 40 40 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (46 ) (46 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications 15 15 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, includes $1 million and $15 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 136 Table of Contents (c) For Generation, includes $371 million and $267 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) For Generation, includes $375 million and $782 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $3 million and $2 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no effective changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts for the remainder of 2010 as the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $971 million, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During 2010 and 2009, this includes $375 million and $782 million of increases related to changes in fair value, respectively, and $371 million and $267 million of decreases, respectively, for reclassifications from regulatory asset to recognize cost in purchased power expense due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2010 ComEd also recorded a $4 million increase in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million and $4 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During December 31, 2010 and 2009, PECOs change in fair value includes $3 million and $2 million related to changes in fair value, respectively, associated with the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, there were no changes in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation for the remainder of 2010 and the mark to market balances previously recorded will be amortized over the term of the contract beginning January 2011. (f) Includes $73 million and $46 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c) : Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 4 3 3 1 11 Total $ 315 $ 101 $ 36 $ 4 $ $ $ 456 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 25 (11 ) (1 ) (6 ) (7 ) 39 39 Total $ 135 $ 113 $ 59 $ 28 $ (7 ) $ 39 $ 367 137 Table of Contents (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 311 $ 98 $ 33 $ 3 $ $ $ 445 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 459 392 139 1 991 Total $ 770 $ 490 $ 172 $ 4 $ $ $ 1,436 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) Prices provided by external sources 111 125 60 34 330 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 29 (4 ) 10 3 1 39 Total $ 139 $ 120 $ 70 $ 37 $ 1 $ $ 367 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $975 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd and $5 million gain related to the fair value of the PECO block contracts. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $951 million at December 31, 2010. ComEd Maturities Within FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (450 ) $ (396 ) $ (147 ) $ (9 ) $ (8 ) $ 39 $ (971 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. The floating to fixed energy swap contracts are recorded in Other deferred debits and other assets on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. 138 Table of Contents PECO Maturities Within Total FairValue 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andBeyond Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (9 ) (a) Represents PECOs liabilities associated with its block contracts executed under its DSP Program. Includes $5 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2010. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $58 million and $248 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2010 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,495 $ 563 $ 932 1 $ 102 Non investment grade 9 3 6 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 42 5 37 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,547 $ 572 $ 975 1 $ 102 139 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2010 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,238 $ 203 $ 54 $ 1,495 Non investment grade 9 9 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 29 11 2 42 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,277 $ 214 $ 56 $ 1,547 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2010 Financial institutions $ 280 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 515 Other 180 Total $ 975 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2010, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, primarily based 140 Table of Contents upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2010. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from S&P, Fitch or Moodys and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. If the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2010, PECOs credit exposure to suppliers under its electric procurement contracts was immaterial. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and management agreements. As of December 31, 2010, PECO had credit exposure of $10 million under its natural gas supply and management contracts. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. 141 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2009, Generation was holding $965 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $12 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $947 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, $6 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2010, ComEd did not hold any cash or letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from any of the suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $20 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2010, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2010, included a $629 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of 142 Table of Contents approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $863 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2010 and 2009 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2010, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2010 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2010, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2010, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $410 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 143 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in EXELON CORPORATION General of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. Generation anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 144 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2010, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in EXELON CORPORATION General of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. Generation anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 144 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2010, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2010, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2010 compared to 2009 and for 2009 compared to 2008 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. PECO anticipates refinancing this facility during the first half of 2011. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents 
 
