ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generations NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations. Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generations estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 was $183 million at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $351 million. Zion Station Decommissioning. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under which ZionSolutions has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in 1998. On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions can periodically request reimbursement from the Zion Station related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning. Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities Generation operates various fossil, hydroelectric and renewable facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2011 and 2010, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generating facilities was 7% and 6%, respectively, of Generations total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation. Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation acquired Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will 12 Table of Contents build, operate, and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 average homes per year. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and to be accretive to cash flows starting in 2013. The project is expected to have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Antelope Valley acquisition. Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, for a purchase price of $311 million pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. Generation recognized a $42 million gain as part of the transaction. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Wolf Hollow acquisition. Exelon Wind. In 2010, Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states for approximately $893 million in cash. On January 1, 2012, Michigan Wind 2, one of the Exelon Wind development projects acquired in 2010, began commercial operations. The facility has a capacity of approximately 90MWs. In addition, Generation is currently developing additional wind projects in Michigan with a combined capacity of approximately 140 MWs. See Note 3 and Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Exelon Wind acquisition and new site development costs, respectively. Plant Retirements. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. For more information regarding plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Licenses. Fossil and renewable generation plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009, Generation filed a Pre Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. Generation plans to file license applications with FERC for both facilities in August 2012. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM, notice is required to be provided before a plant can be retired. Insurance. Generation maintains business interruption insurance for its wind and solar PV projects, and delay in start up insurance for its wind and solar PV projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation. 13 Table of Contents Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following long term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2011: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MW) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, L.P. (a) Franklin, Georgia 2030 945 Tenaska Frontier Partners, Ltd. (b) Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC (c) Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 778 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 775 Old Trail Windfarm, LLC McLean, Illinois 2026 198 Others (d) Various 2012 to 2028 391 Total 5,025 (a) Generation has sold its rights to 945 MW of capacity, energy and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, L.P. through a PPA with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company for a 20 year period that began on June 1, 2010. (b) On December 17, 2009, Generation entered into a PPA with Entergy Texas, Inc. (ETI) to sell 150 MWs through April 30, 2011 and 300 MWs thereafter of capacity and energy from the Frontier Generating Station. The term of the PPA is approximately 10 years. (c) Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two thirds, of capacity, energy and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (d) Includes long term capacity contracts with six counterparties. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2011 and estimated for 2012: Source of Electric Supply (a) 2011 2012 (Est.) Nuclear 139,297 141,316 Purchases non trading portfolio 18,908 18,397 Fossil and renewable 11,638 16,466 Total supply 169,843 176,179 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its generating plants. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations and some of Generations retail business requirements. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2015. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2017. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. 14 Table of Contents Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale marketing and retail electric supplier operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs as part of its overall strategic plan, with objectives such as obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan, such as a financial swap with ComEd that is described below and runs into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2012 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64%, and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts, including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk 15 Table of Contents management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generations efforts. At December 31, 2011, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the sale and purchase of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power OnlyPurchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2012 $ 177 $ 11 $ 1,150 $ 9 2013 71 834 6 2014 63 346 2015 61 200 2016 61 177 Thereafter 478 737 Total $ 911 $ 11 $ 3,444 $ 15 (a) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011, including certain capacity charges, which are subject to plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEds load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. See ComEd Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. PECO procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECOs load. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding PECOs competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2012 are as follows: (in millions) Nuclear fuel (a) $ 1,173 Production plant 844 Uprates 450 Renewable energy projects (b) 1,301 Total $ 3,768 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant. (b) Includes expenditures for Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind development projects. 16 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011 and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MWs. Retail Electric Services Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier. At December 31, 2011, approximately 380,300 retail customers representing approximately 56% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without mark up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEds reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales are offset by an equal amount of purchased power expense. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices. Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General 17 Table of Contents Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to conduct procurement events for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through December 2017 period. In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for early termination, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case) approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. In the order, the ICC authorized a 10.3% rate of return on common equity. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate order with the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). On September 30, 2010, the Court issued a decision in those appeals. That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). ComEds Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court was denied on March 30, 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and, in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric distribution rate case, which became effective on June 1, 2011. The order approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement and a 10.5% rate of return on common equity. The order allowed ComEd to establish or reestablish a net amount of approximately $40 million of previously expensed plant balances or new regulatory assets, which is reflected as a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electric distribution rate cases. Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Since June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the IPA administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, 18 Table of Contents ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31, 2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Continuous Power Interruption. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEds case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not believe that during the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement. On August 18, 2011, ComEd sought from the ICC a determination that ComEd is not liable under provisions of the Illinois Public Utilities Act that could require damage compensation to customers in connection with the July 11, 2011 storm system that affected more than 900,000 customers in ComEds service territory, as well as five other storm systems that affected ComEds customers during June and July 2011. In the absence of a favorable determination from the ICC, some ComEd customers affected by the outages could seek recovery of their actual, non consequential damages, and the local governments in which those customers are located could seek recovery of emergency and contingency expenses. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $1,330 million, which includes RTEP projects and infrastructure modernization resulting from EIMA. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards. 19 Table of Contents PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.9 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 494,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW. PECOs natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf. Retail Electric Services PECOs retail electric sales and distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric generation rates were capped through a transition period that ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a non bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. As of December 31, 2010, PECOs stranded costs were fully recovered. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECOs actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates without markup through the GSA. Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. At December 31, 2011, there were 59 alternative EGSs serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2011, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative EGS was 387,628, representing approximately 25% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from EGSs represented approximately 57% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. This represents a significant increase from prior years due to the expiration of electric generation rate caps that were lower than market prices during the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to rates for PECOs electric supply procurement costs and retail transmission service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs. 20 Table of Contents Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact PECOs results of operations or financial position. PECOs cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service. Electric Distribution Rate Case. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. Procurement Proceedings. Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECOs transition period and capped electric generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its current PAPUC approved DSP Program. PECO has entered into contracts with PAPUC approved bidders as part of its six competitive procurements conducted since June 2009 for its default electric supply beginning January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes during the term of its current DSP Program, which expires on May 31, 2013. On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs Smart Meter Programs. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters by 2013, accelerate universal deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters by 2020 and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million through 2013. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers. Energy Efficiency Programs. PECOs approved four year EE&C plan totals approximately $328 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non profit, educational, 21 Table of Contents governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. In July 2011, PECO filed a petition to make adjustments to its EE&C Plan. The filing noted that PECO has exceeded the 1% energy use reduction target required by May 31, 2011 in accordance with Act 129; the adjustments, which were approved by the PAPUC on August 18, 2011, will allow PECO to meet its May 31, 2013 targets for energy use and energy demand reductions, while remaining within its approved plan budget. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without markup through the PGC. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2011, 40% of PECOs current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO, of which, 34% was for commercial and industrial customers participating in PECOs High Volume Transportation Program and 6% was for residential and small commercial customers participating in PECOs Low Volume Transportation Choice Program. PECO provides distribution service, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to all customers in PECOs service territory. Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases. On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs natural gas distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million, which became effective in natural gas distribution rates on January 1, 2011. Procurement Proceedings. PECOs natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers primarily under long term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECOs 2011 2012 heating season planned supplies. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction commitments under PJMs RTEP as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $436 million, which includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements. 22 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees. PJM is the ISO and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. ComEds transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERCs order establishes the agreed upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis. As a result of PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO default service customers are charged for retail transmission services through a rider designed to recover PECOs PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement. The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff under which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale transmission service. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services. 23 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2011, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,267 employees in the following companies, of which 8,567 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAs (c) Total EmployeesCovered by CBAs TotalEmployees Generation 1,697 150 1,813 3,660 9,586 ComEd 3,561 3,561 5,769 PECO 1,237 1,237 2,418 Other (d) 82 27 109 1,494 Total 5,340 1,387 1,840 8,567 19,267 (a) A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 42 employees in ComEds System Services Group. (b) 1,237 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 150 employees. (c) During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally expire between 2013 and 2015, except for the agreements at Braidwood, Byron and TMI, which expire in 2012. Additionally, during 2009, a 5 year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. In 2010, a 3 year agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees. In 2011, four 3 year agreements were reached at Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities. (d) Other includes shared services employees at BSC. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelons strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd and PECO. Water Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities 24 Table of Contents discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. Environmental Remediation ComEds and PECOs environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECOs 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011. The amount to be expended in 2012 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $32 million, consisting of $26 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Generations environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at current or former generation facilities. As of December 31, 2011, Generation has established an appropriate accrual to comply with environmental remediation requirements which includes an accrual for contamination attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named Latty Avenue near St. Louis, Missouri formerly owned by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary. 25 Table of Contents See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations owned coal fired units. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the CSAPR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal and oil fired electric generating facilities under the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2011. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel fired generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions. However, only approximately 5% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change. Climate Change Regulation. Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels. International Climate Change Regulation. At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2011 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 17) Conference in Durban, South Africa, a 26 Table of Contents package of decisions was adopted that initiate another commitment phase for the Kyoto Protocol and initiating a new round of discussions with the objective of establishing a successor agreement by 2015 that would commence beginning in 2020. These decisions build on the agreements reached in the 2009 Copenhagen Accord, including the United States agreeing to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions. Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. It is uncertain when any mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions would be established in the future. If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits. The U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of GHG emissions regulation for new stationary sources through its proposed New Source Performance Standard under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. Such proposed regulation has the potential to cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance for GHG emissions from stationary sources. Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an inter state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations. At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission intensity and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment in 2005 under the U.S. EPAs Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by reducing its CO2e emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. 27 Table of Contents In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. In 2010, Exelon announced that it had achieved just over 50% of the annual Exelon 2020 goal. The retirement of fossil units, Cromby Units 1 and 2 and Eddystone Unit 1 in 2011 and the planned retirement of Eddystone Unit 2 in 2012, will further contribute to fully achieving the goal. The early retirement of Oyster Creek may result in increased generation from fossil generating plants in the PJM RTO, which could result in increased GHG emissions under Exelon 2020 through reverse displacement. The current plan for achieving the Exelon 2020 goal accounts for these events. Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds Smart Ideas portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant awards. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelons emissions reduction efforts will position the company to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal climate policy, Exelon 2020 strategy has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business strategy. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Thirty three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future. 28 Table of Contents The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The AEPS Act was effective for PECO on January 1, 2011, following the expiration of PECOs transition period. During 2011, PECO was required to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing by products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to purchase non solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts. Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generations retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in Illinois and Pennsylvania from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 9, 2012 Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Exelon 2004 2008 President, Generation 2007 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present 29 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Crane, Christopher M. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Clark, Frank M. 66 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present OBrien, Denis P. 51 Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 57 President, Exelon Business Services Company 2005 Present Executive Vice President, Exelon 2008 Present Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon 2010 Present Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2002 2008 Von Hoene Jr., William A. 58 Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon 2009 Present Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2006 2008 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Cornew, Kenneth W. 46 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Dominguez, Joseph 48 Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 30 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Pramaggiore, Anne R. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Bradford, Darryl M. 56 Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2010 Present General Counsel, ComEd 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, ComEd 2007 2009 DesParte, Duane M. 48 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2008 Present Vice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2008 Generation Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Pardee, Charles G. 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2010 Present President, Exelon Nuclear 2008 2010 Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2008 Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2005 2007 Cornew, Kenneth W. 46 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Pacilio, Michael J. 51 President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2010 Present Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Mid West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 31 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Garg, Sunil 45 Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 2010 Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Dominguez, Joseph 48 Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Galvanoni, Matthew R. 39 Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 Present Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO 2007 2009 32 Table of Contents ComEd Name Age Position Period Clark, Frank M. 66 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present Pramaggiore, Anne R. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Hooker, John T. 63 Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd 2005 2008 Donnelly, Terence R. 51 Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd 2007 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2004 2007 Trpik Jr., Joseph R. 42 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon 2004 2009 Marquez Jr., Fidel 50 Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd 2007 2009 ONeill, Thomas S. 49 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation; Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon 2009 2009 Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation 2007 2009 Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 33 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Anthony, J. Tyler 47 Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd 2010 Present Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2007 2010 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2007 2007 Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation 2006 2007 Waden, Kevin J. 40 Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd 2009 Present Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery 2003 2007 PECO Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director. CornEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present OBrien, Denis P. 51 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Adams, Craig L. 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Barnett, Phillip S. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon 2005 2007 Bonney, Paul R. 53 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO 2009 Present General Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO 2007 2009 Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company 2001 2007 Diaz Jr., Romulo L. 65 Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO 2009 Present Associate General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia 2005 2008 Acevedo, Jorge A. 40 Vice President and Controller, PECO 2009 Present Assistant Treasurer, PECO 2010 Present Assistant Controller, Generation 2007 2009 Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation 2003 2007 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond the Registrants control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the risk oversight and audit committees of the Exelon board of directors and the ComEd and PECO boards of directors. In addition, the Exelon board of directors generation oversight and energy delivery oversight committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the known material risks that affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed by a Registrant to be material that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition in the future. The Registrants most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generations position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants major risks fall primarily under the following categories: Market and Financial Risks. Exelons and Generations market and financial risks include the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants receive, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Registrants regulatory and legislative risks include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelons and Generations financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generations ability to sell power into the competitive wholesale power markets at market based prices. In addition, potential regulation and legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Operational Risks. The Registrants operational risks include those risks inherent in running the nations largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelons ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation. As a result of the merger agreement announced with Constellation on April 28, 2011, Exelon is subject to additional risks. 35 Table of Contents A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation hedges the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, through long term power purchase agreements. Absent any hedging activity through long term, fixed price transactions, Generation would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices in the markets in which its assets are located, which would mean that Generations cash flows would vary accordingly. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, and, therefore, the market price of power will reflect the market price of the marginal fuel. As such, changes in the market price of fossil fuels will cause comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affecting the its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, further delay or elimination of EPA air quality regulations will tend to place downward pressure on market prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output, and could also result in an impairment of such plants. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Worse than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity. If this continues, it could adversely affect the Registrants ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. A slow recovery could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could also adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks in the wholesale power market that are beyond its control and may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. 36 Table of Contents In addition, Generations retail sales subject it to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets remain evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generations business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generations NDTs and Exelons employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generations nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements may also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad can adversely affect the Registrants ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within 37 Table of Contents a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. In addition, the Registrants have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of its trading counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under its hedging arrangements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of the applicable hedge, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEds financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon 38 Table of Contents its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECOs operating agreement with PJM and its natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECOs collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current regulatory environments in Illinois and Pennsylvania become less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the applicable state or adopting other measures to mitigate higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if its financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd or PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants cash flows. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. 39 Table of Contents Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generations asset based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generations financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass the tests administered by FERC, Generation could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with ComEd, PECO and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets. 40 Table of Contents Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions and for the IRS to withdraw its assertion of a $110 million substantial understatement penalty related to the involuntary conversion position. However, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement on the like kind exchange position. Exelon expects to initiate litigation on this matter during 2012. If the IRS is successful in its challenge to the like kind exchange position, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2011, Exelons potential cash outflow, including tax and interest, could be as much as $860 million, of which $550 million would be paid by ComEd and the remainder by Exelon. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, Exelons results of operations could also be negatively impacted due to increased interest expense of up to $260 million, net of tax, of which $200 million would be recorded at ComEd and the remainder at Exelon. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the like kind exchange position, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after tax charge of $86 million to Exelons and ComEds results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of the like kind exchange matter are unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEds and PECOs current procurement plans include purchasing power through contracted suppliers and in the spot market. ComEds and PECOs costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. For PECO, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas can result in declines in customer usage, lower electric transmission and distribution revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for ComEd and PECO as well as lower gas distribution revenues for PECO. Also, ComEds and PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. In addition to increased purchased power charges for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, the impact of economic downturns on ComEd and PECOs customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations 41 Table of Contents on residential service terminations may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for further discussion of the Registrants credit risk. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Generations operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought like conditions limiting water usage can impact Generations ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak. Certain long lived assets recorded on the Registrants statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Long lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants statement of financial position. Specifically, long lived assets account for 59%, 49%, 58% and 64% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The Registrants evaluate for impairment the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used whenever indications of impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the long lived asset through a non cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases extending through 2028 2032. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these leased assets to determine whether any indications of impairment exist. In determining the estimate of residual value, the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. An impairment would require Exelon to reduce the value of its investment in the plants through a non cash charge to expense. Such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons results of operations. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2011 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill 42 Table of Contents to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. A fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions used in estimating ComEds fair value (e.g., discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt) could result in an impairment. Such an impairment would result in a non cash charge to expense, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Notes 5 and 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long lived asset and goodwill impairments. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments by Generation in energy generation and by ComEd and PECO in transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. The Registrants results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS for further information regarding the Registrants potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon or its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Due to its significant contractual agreements with ComEd, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds continued payments under these contracts and would be adversely affected by negative events impacting these contracts, including the non performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. A default by ComEd under these contracts would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers where Generation serves load can switch from their respective energy delivery company to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of an electric 43 Table of Contents distribution companies default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is retail customers switching to or from competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from its retail load serving counterparties than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more customers switch than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse regulatory and legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelons and Generations operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelons, ComEds and PECOs operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on the ability of ComEd and PECO to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power to their customers. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting the Registrants businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in a region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low carbon nuclear assets. However, regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high because the competitive model is not working, and, therefore, are facing calls for some form of re regulation or some other means of 44 Table of Contents reducing wholesale market prices. As the energy markets continue to mature, if the number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings shrinks, this could also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes have expired, is expected to continue. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives. Approximately 75% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on 1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, such as PJMs, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market. Generation could also be adversely affected by state laws designed to reduce wholesale prices artificially below competitive levels, such as the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. In addition, FERCs application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERCs tests for market based rates. Since Order 697 became final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generations authority to sell at market based rates and none denying that authority. Generations most recent submission seeking reauthorization to sell at market based rates was accepted by FERC on June 22, 2011 for the PJM region. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis that unfolded during the Fall of 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a brand new regulatory regime applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. The significance of the effect on Generation will depend in part on whether it is determined to be a swap dealer or a qualifying end user through a self identification process, based on the meaning of those terms established in the final rules. If Generation is deemed a swap dealer, it will be required to register with the CFTC and execute most bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This requirement could cause Generation to commit substantial additional capital to support the business and to cover increases in its collateral costs associated with margin requirements of the major exchanges such as the NYMEX. Generation would also face increased reporting and record keeping requirements, would have to abide by CFTC specified business conduct standards, and adhere to position limits in a potentially broad range of energy commodities. Even if Generation is not deemed a swap dealer, it will still face additional regulatory obligations under Dodd Frank, including some reporting requirements, clearing some additional transactions that it would otherwise enter into over the counter, and having to adhere to position limits. More fundamentally, however, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral OTC swaps market to decreases substantially. As Generations hedging program relies heavily on its ability to access the current bilateral OTC swaps market, the new rules could impede Generations ability to meet its hedge targets in a cost effective manner. Generation continues to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process. Generation cannot predict the ultimate outcome that Dodd Frank will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 45 Table of Contents Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies are one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. Pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP regarding the application of Section 316(b) to Oyster Creek, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. 46 Table of Contents In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators in establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the recently enacted EIMA and appeals in connection with ComEds 2007 and 2010 Illinois electric distribution rate cases. Federal or additional state RPS and or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers. 47 Table of Contents Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs and investments in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP and NERC compliance requirements. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Uncertainties exist as to the construction of new transmission facilities, their cost and how those costs will be allocated to transmission system participants and customers. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. ComEd and PECO as transmission owners are subject to NERC compliance requirements. NERC provides guidance to transmission owners regarding assessments of transmission lines. The results of these assessments may require ComEd and PECO to incur incremental capital or operating and maintenance expenditures to ensure their transmission lines meet NERC standards. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.8 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $ 610 million (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record the same amount of extraordinary gain and charge related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Further, Exelon would record a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $3.0 billion and $32 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEds goodwill, respectively. 48 Table of Contents Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS Global Climate Change and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PECO as operator of a natural gas distribution system is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants results of operations. Operational Risks The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. 49 Table of Contents Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations fleet of nuclear power plants and ComEds and PECOs distribution and transmission infrastructures could be impacted by natural disasters, such as seismic activity, more frequent and more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. An example of such an event was the 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami experienced by Japan on March 11, 2011, that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Also, in 2011, the Mid Atlantic region of the United States experienced a 5.8 magnitude earthquake and flooding associated with hurricane Irene and tropical storm Lee. These events increase the risk to Generation that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies may change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Generations continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect the Registrants operations and their ability to raise capital. Exelon does not know the impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. As owner operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, the Registrants face a risk that their operations would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect their operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect the Registrants results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. The Registrants would be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to committed third party sales, including ComEd and PECO. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. 50 Table of Contents Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and are currently planned to average approximately 26 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 26 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 60 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generations ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Furthermore, under its contract with the DOE, Generation would be required to pay the DOE a one time SNF storage fee including interest of approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2011, prior to the first delivery of SNF. Generation currently estimates 2020 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the spent nuclear fuel obligation. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license period. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. 51 Table of Contents As an example, prior to the Fukushima Daiichi accident on March 11, 2011, the NRC had been evaluating seismic risk. After the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the NRCs focus on seismic risk intensified. As part of the NRC Near Term Task Force (Task Force) review and evaluation of the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the Task Force recommended that plant operators conduct seismic reevaluations. In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. These reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for a more detailed discussion of the Task Force Recommendations. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, Generation may not achieve the anticipated results under its series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generations results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could effect transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. The required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. 52 Table of Contents Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations two units that have been retired) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation would be unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed licenses of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. 53 Table of Contents ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities, including information systems, used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather or information systems failure. Specifically, if the implementation of advanced metering infrastructure, smart grid or other technologies in ComEd or PECOs service territory fail to perform as intended or are not successfully integrated with billing and other information systems, ComEd and PECOs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The aforementioned failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers, and those damages could be material to ComEds results of operations and cash flows. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize ComEd and PECOs ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants face information security risks as the owner operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A security breach of the Registrants information systems could impact the operation of the generation fleet and or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject 54 Table of Contents them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. ComEd and PECOs deployment of smart meters throughout their service territories may increase the risk of damage from an intentional disruption of the system by third parties. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. In addition, new or updated security regulations would require changes in current measures taken by the Registrants and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions intended to fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation Because the market price of shares of Exelon common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, the merger consideration at the date of the closing may vary significantly from the date the merger agreement was executed. Upon completion of the merger, each outstanding share of Constellation common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.930 of a share of Exelon common stock. The number of shares of Exelon common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement for each share of Constellation common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of Exelon or Constellation common stock. The market price of Exelon common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the market prices of Exelon common stock on the date the merger agreement was executed. In addition, Exelon might not complete the merger until a significant period of time has passed after the respective special shareholder meetings to approve the merger occurred. Because Exelon will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of Exelon common stock or Constellation common stock, the market value of the Exelon common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Constellation common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Exelon or Constellation prior to or following the merger, litigation or regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Exelon and Constellation. Neither Exelon nor Constellation is permitted to terminate the merger agreement solely because of changes in the market price of either companys common stock. The combined companys assets, liabilities or results of operations could be adversely affected by unknown or unexpected events, conditions or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The Constellation assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects to be acquired or assumed by Exelon by reason of the merger could be adversely affected 55 Table of Contents before or after the merger closing as a result of previously unknown events or conditions occurring or existing before the merger closing. Adverse changes in Constellations business or operations could occur or arise as a result of actions by Constellation, legal or regulatory developments including the emergence or unfavorable resolution of pre acquisition loss contingencies, deteriorating general business, market, industry or economic conditions, and other factors both within and beyond the control of Constellation. A significant decline in the value of Constellation assets to be acquired by Exelon or a significant increase in Constellation liabilities to be assumed by Exelon could adversely affect the combined companys future business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects. The merger agreement contains provisions that limit each of Exelons and Constellations ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, which could discourage a potential acquirer of either Constellation or Exelon from making an alternative transaction proposal and, in certain circumstances, could require Exelon or Constellation to pay to the other a significant termination fee. Under the merger agreement, Exelon and Constellation are restricted, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into alternative transactions in lieu of the merger. In general, unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, both Exelon and Constellation are restricted from, among other things, soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or facilitating a competing acquisition proposal from any person. Each of the Exelon board of directors and the Constellation board of directors is limited in its ability to change its recommendation with respect to the merger related proposals. Exelon or Constellation may terminate the merger agreement and enter into an agreement with respect to a superior proposal only if specified conditions have been satisfied, including compliance with the non solicitation provisions of the merger agreement. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Exelon or Constellation from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the consideration proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it would otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. Exelon and Constellation will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and could adversely affect their financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on Exelon and or Constellation. These uncertainties may impair Exelons and or Constellations ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with Exelon or Constellation to seek to change existing business relationships with Exelon or Constellation. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may also place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect Exelons and or Constellations financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts each of Exelon and Constellation, without the others consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions while the merger is 56 Table of Contents pending. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and or Constellation from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their respective businesses prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. If completed, the merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon and Constellation may be unable to integrate their operations in the manner expected. Exelon and Constellation entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and Constellation can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined companys ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger as and when expected. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined companys future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The merger may not be accretive to earnings and may cause dilution to Exelons earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of Exelons common stock. Exelon currently anticipates that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share in 2013, which is expected to be the first full year following completion of the merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. Exelon also could encounter additional transaction and integration related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in Exelons adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of Exelons common stock. Exelon may record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect its operating results. Accounting standards in the United States require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Constellation common stock by Exelon and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The assets and liabilities of Constellation will be consolidated with those of Exelon. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Constellations assets and liabilities, if any, will be recorded as goodwill. The amount of goodwill, which could be material, will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. Exelon is required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value of reporting units to the carrying value of those reporting units. To the extent the carrying value of any of those reporting units is greater than the fair value, a second step comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount would be required to determine if the goodwill is impaired. Such a potential impairment could result in a material charge that would have a material impact on Exelons future operating results and consolidated balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Pending litigation against Exelon and Constellation could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and may adversely affect the combined companys business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows following the merger. Twelve purported class action lawsuits were filed against Constellation, each member of Constellations board of directors, Exelon and Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, in connection with the merger. Among other things, the lawsuits sought injunctive relief that would have prevented completion of the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. The parties to the litigation have reached a settlement that remains subject to court approval. If the settlement is not approved by the court, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to Exelon and Constellation, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Exelon, Constellation and or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the combined companys business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The merger is subject to the receipt of consent or approval from governmental entities that could delay the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause abandonment of the merger. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of consents, orders, approvals or clearances, to the extent required, from the FERC, the NRC, the FCC, and the public utility commissions or similar entities in certain states in which the companies operate, including the Maryland Public Service Commission. The merger is also subject to review by the DOJ Antitrust Division, under the HSR Act, and the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period (and any extension of the waiting period) applicable to the merger is a condition to closing the merger. As of February 9, 2012, the merger remains subject to the approval of the NRC, FERC and the Maryland Public Service Commission, which may impose conditions for approval beyond those already proposed by Exelon and Constellation. The shareholders of Exelon and Constellation approved the proposals required to complete the merger at the special meetings of the shareholders before any or all of the required regulatory approvals have been obtained and before all conditions to such approvals, if any, are known. As a result, Exelon and Constellation may subsequently agree to conditions without seeking further shareholder approval, even if such conditions could have an adverse effect on Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Exelon and Constellation cannot provide assurance that all required regulatory consents or approvals will be obtained or that these consents or approvals will not contain terms, conditions or restrictions that would be detrimental to the combined company after the completion of the merger. The merger agreement generally permits each party to terminate the merger agreement if the final terms of any of the required regulatory consents or approvals require (1) any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over any nuclear or hydroelectric or pumped storage generation assets of the parties or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates; or (2) any action (including any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over base load capacity), without including those actions proposed by the parties mutually agreed upon analysis of mitigation to address the increased market concentration resulting from the merger and the concessions announced by the parties in the press release announcing the merger agreement, which would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either party. Any substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals, receipt of proceeds from 58 Table of Contents required divestitures in an amount substantially lower than anticipated or the imposition of any terms or conditions in connection with such approvals could cause a material reduction in the expected benefits of the merger. If any such delays or conditions are serious enough, the parties may decide to abandon the merger. Exelon cannot assure that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate. Exelon currently expects to pay dividends in an amount consistent with the dividend policy of Exelon in effect prior to the completion of the merger. However, there is no assurance that Exelon shareholders will receive the same dividends following the merger for reasons that may include any of the following factors: Exelon may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in Exelons cash requirements, capital spending plans, financing agreements, cash flow or financial position; decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Exelon board of directors, which reserves the right to change Exelons dividend practices at any time and for any reason; the amount of dividends that Exelon may distribute to its shareholders is subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania law; and Exelon may not receive dividend payments from its subsidiaries in the same level that it has historically. The ability of Exelons subsidiaries to make dividend payments to it is subject to factors similar to those listed above. Exelons shareholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared. If completed, the merger may adversely affect the combined companys ability to attract and retain key employees. Current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the combined company following the completion of the merger. In addition, current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may determine that they do not desire to work for the combined company for a variety of possible reasons. These factors may adversely affect the combined companys ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect the share prices and the future businesses and financial results of Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by governmental agencies will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing businesses of Exelon or Constellation may be adversely affected and Exelon and Constellation will be subject to several risks, including: having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon; Exelon and Constellation will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses, which may have prevented them from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger is pending; and 59 Table of Contents the share price of Exelon or Constellation may decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the merger will be completed. Exelon and Constellation may incur unexpected transaction fees and merger related costs in connection with the merger. Exelon and Constellation expect to incur a number of non recurring expenses, totalling approximately $150 million, associated with completing the merger, as well as expenses related to combining the operations of the two companies. The combined company may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Exelon and Constellation. Although Exelon expects that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. Current Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. Exelon will issue or reserve for issuance approximately 201.9 million shares of Exelon common stock to Constellation stockholders in the merger (including shares of Exelon common stock issuable pursuant to Constellation stock options and other equity based awards). Based on the number of shares of common stock of Exelon and Constellation outstanding on March 31, 2011, the record date for the two companies special meetings of shareholders, upon the completion of the merger, current Exelon shareholders and former Constellation stockholders would own approximately 78% and 22% of the outstanding shares of Exelon common stock, respectively, immediately following the consummation of the merger. Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders currently have the right to vote for their respective directors and on other matters affecting their company. When the merger occurs, each Constellation stockholder who receives shares of Exelon common stock will become a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholders percentage ownership of Constellation. Correspondingly, each Exelon shareholder will remain a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholders percentage of Exelon prior to the merger. As a result of these reduced ownership percentages, Exelon shareholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Exelon, and former Constellation stockholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Constellation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 60 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2011: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,348 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,323 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,067 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,753 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,316 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,312 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 (e) Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50 Uranium Base load 1,150 (f) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75 Uranium Base load 1,380 (f) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 1,004 (f) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 17,115 Fossil (Steam Turbines)(g) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (f) Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (f) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wolf Hollow 1, 2 Granbury, TX 2 Gas Intermediate 425 Wolf Hollow 3 Granbury, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 280 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (f) 4,446 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 391 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 28 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 98 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,437 61 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 7 Hydroelectric and Other Renewables AgriWind Bureau Co., IL 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) Blue Breezes Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 3 Bluegrass Ridge Gentry Co., MO 27 99 Wind Base load 56 (f) Brewster Jackson Co., MN 6 94 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) Cassia Twin Falls Co., ID 14 Wind Base load 29 Cisco Jackson Co., MN 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) City Solar Chicago, IL n.a. Solar Base load 10 Conception Nodaway Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Cow Branch Atchinson Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Cowell Pipestone Co., MN 1 99 Wind Base load 2 (f) CP Windfarm Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 4 Echo 1 Umatilla Co., OR 21 99 Wind Base load 34 (f) Echo 2 Morrow Co., OR 10 Wind Base load 20 Echo 3 Morrow Co., OR 6 99 Wind Base load 10 (f) Exelon Wind 1 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 2 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 3 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 4 Hansford Co., TX 38 Wind Base load 80 Exelon Wind 5 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 6 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 7 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 8 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 9 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 10 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 11 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Ewington Jackson Co., MN 10 99 Wind Base load 20 (f) Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Greensburg Kiowa Co., KS 10 Wind Base load 13 Harvest Huron Co., MI 32 Wind Base load 53 High Plains Moore Co., TX 8 99.5 Wind Base load 10 (f) Loess Hills Atchinson Co., MO 4 Wind Base load 5 Marshall Lyon Co., MN 9 98 99 Wind Base load 19 (f) Michigan Wind 1 Bingham Twp., MI 46 Wind Base load 69 Michigan Wind 2 Bingham Twp., MI 50 Wind Base load 90 Mountain Home Elmore Co., ID 20 Wind Base load 40 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 Norgaard Lincoln Co., MN 7 99 Wind Base load 9 (f) Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Threemile Canyon Morrow Co., OR 6 Wind Base load 10 62 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Tuana Springs Twin Falls Co., ID 8 Wind Base load 17 Wolf Nobles Co., MN 5 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) 2,539 Total 25,544 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system and, consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours and, consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of lower efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines and diesels normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. Fossil stations reflect a summer rating. For wind stations, reflects the name plate capacity. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Generation has agreed to permanently cease generation operation at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (g) Excludes Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 2, which is operating pursuant to a reliability must run (RMR) agreement with PJM through May 31, 2012. Eddystone Unit 2 will cease operations upon the end of the RMR period. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, transmission congestion, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies or generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2011 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,642 138,000 2,237 63 Table of Contents ComEds electric distribution system includes 35,569 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,408 circuit miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds First Mortgage Bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a significant portion of its transmission lines are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs high voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2011 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 200 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500 kV lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500 kV lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,972 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,851 circuit miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2011: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,732 Service piping 4,533 Total 11,296 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in 64 Table of Contents Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 32 natural gas city gate stations and direct pipeline customer delivery points at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Not Applicable to the Registrants. 65 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2012, there were 663,640,976 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 125,092 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2011 2010 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 45.45 $ 45.27 $ 42.89 $ 43.58 $ 44.49 $ 43.32 $ 45.10 $ 49.88 Low price 39.93 39.51 39.53 39.06 39.05 37.63 37.24 42.97 Close 43.37 42.61 42.84 41.24 41.64 42.58 37.97 43.81 Dividends 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 66 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2007 through 2011. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2006 in Exelon common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2012, Exelon indirectly held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2012, there were 127,016,529 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 31, 2012, in addition to Exelon, there were 240 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 67 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2012, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with a financing arranged through ComEd Financing III that ComEd will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. No such event has occurred. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred securities. At December 31, 2011, such capital was $2.9 billion and amounted to about 34 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred securities of $87 million. PECO has agreed in connection with financings arranged through PEC L.P. and PECO Trust IV that PECO will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. No such event has occurred. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million, partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficits, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. 68 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2011 2010 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 111 $ 61 $ $ $ 885 $ 206 $ 156 $ 261 ComEd 75 75 75 75 85 75 75 75 PECO 80 84 73 111 46 63 51 64 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. 69 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,924 $ 18,644 $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 Operating income 4,480 4,726 4,750 5,299 4,668 Income from continuing operations $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 Income from discontinued operations 1 20 10 Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 Income from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 Net income $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 665 663 662 662 676 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,489 $ 6,398 $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 Property, plant and equipment, net 32,570 29,941 27,341 25,813 24,153 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,839 4,140 4,872 5,940 5,133 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Other deferred debits and other assets 9,569 9,136 8,901 8,038 8,760 Total assets $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 Current liabilities $ 4,989 $ 4,240 $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,189 12,004 11,385 12,592 11,965 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,771 3,555 3,492 2,520 3,301 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 19,668 18,791 17,338 17,489 14,131 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Noncontrolling interest 3 3 Shareholders equity 14,385 13,560 12,640 11,047 10,137 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 (a) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. (b) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 70 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 Operating income 2,876 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 Income from continuing operations $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ 2,025 Income from discontinued operations 20 4 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,204 $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,475 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 Other deferred debits and other assets 10,754 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 Total assets $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 Current liabilities $ 2,144 $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 Long term debt 3,674 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,907 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 Noncontrolling interest 5 5 2 1 1 Members equity 8,703 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 Total liabilities and members equity $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 71 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 Operating income 982 1,056 843 667 512 Net income 416 337 374 201 165 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,106 $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,121 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Noncurrent regulatory assets 796 947 1,096 858 503 Other deferred debits and other assets 4,005 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 Total assets $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 Current liabilities $ 1,946 $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 5,421 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,167 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 5,082 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 Shareholders equity 7,037 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 72 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale marketing and retail electric supplier operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs as part of its overall strategic plan, with objectives such as obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan, such as a financial swap with ComEd that is described below and runs into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2012 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64%, and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts, including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk 15 Table of Contents management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generations efforts. At December 31, 2011, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the sale and purchase of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power OnlyPurchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2012 $ 177 $ 11 $ 1,150 $ 9 2013 71 834 6 2014 63 346 2015 61 200 2016 61 177 Thereafter 478 737 Total $ 911 $ 11 $ 3,444 $ 15 (a) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011, including certain capacity charges, which are subject to plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEds load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. See ComEd Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. PECO procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECOs load. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding PECOs competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2012 are as follows: (in millions) Nuclear fuel (a) $ 1,173 Production plant 844 Uprates 450 Renewable energy projects (b) 1,301 Total $ 3,768 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant. (b) Includes expenditures for Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind development projects. 16 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011 and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MWs. Retail Electric Services Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier. At December 31, 2011, approximately 380,300 retail customers representing approximately 56% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without mark up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEds reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales are offset by an equal amount of purchased power expense. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices. Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General 17 Table of Contents Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to conduct procurement events for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through December 2017 period. In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for early termination, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case) approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. In the order, the ICC authorized a 10.3% rate of return on common equity. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate order with the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). On September 30, 2010, the Court issued a decision in those appeals. That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). ComEds Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court was denied on March 30, 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and, in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric distribution rate case, which became effective on June 1, 2011. The order approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement and a 10.5% rate of return on common equity. The order allowed ComEd to establish or reestablish a net amount of approximately $40 million of previously expensed plant balances or new regulatory assets, which is reflected as a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electric distribution rate cases. Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Since June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the IPA administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, 18 Table of Contents ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31, 2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Continuous Power Interruption. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEds case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not believe that during the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement. On August 18, 2011, ComEd sought from the ICC a determination that ComEd is not liable under provisions of the Illinois Public Utilities Act that could require damage compensation to customers in connection with the July 11, 2011 storm system that affected more than 900,000 customers in ComEds service territory, as well as five other storm systems that affected ComEds customers during June and July 2011. In the absence of a favorable determination from the ICC, some ComEd customers affected by the outages could seek recovery of their actual, non consequential damages, and the local governments in which those customers are located could seek recovery of emergency and contingency expenses. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $1,330 million, which includes RTEP projects and infrastructure modernization resulting from EIMA. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards. 19 Table of Contents PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.9 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 494,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW. PECOs natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf. Retail Electric Services PECOs retail electric sales and distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric generation rates were capped through a transition period that ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a non bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. As of December 31, 2010, PECOs stranded costs were fully recovered. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply procurement cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECOs actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates without markup through the GSA. Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. At December 31, 2011, there were 59 alternative EGSs serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2011, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative EGS was 387,628, representing approximately 25% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from EGSs represented approximately 57% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. This represents a significant increase from prior years due to the expiration of electric generation rate caps that were lower than market prices during the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to rates for PECOs electric supply procurement costs and retail transmission service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs. 20 Table of Contents Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact PECOs results of operations or financial position. PECOs cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service. Electric Distribution Rate Case. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. Procurement Proceedings. Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECOs transition period and capped electric generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its current PAPUC approved DSP Program. PECO has entered into contracts with PAPUC approved bidders as part of its six competitive procurements conducted since June 2009 for its default electric supply beginning January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes during the term of its current DSP Program, which expires on May 31, 2013. On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs Smart Meter Programs. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters by 2013, accelerate universal deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters by 2020 and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million through 2013. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers. Energy Efficiency Programs. PECOs approved four year EE&C plan totals approximately $328 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non profit, educational, 21 Table of Contents governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. In July 2011, PECO filed a petition to make adjustments to its EE&C Plan. The filing noted that PECO has exceeded the 1% energy use reduction target required by May 31, 2011 in accordance with Act 129; the adjustments, which were approved by the PAPUC on August 18, 2011, will allow PECO to meet its May 31, 2013 targets for energy use and energy demand reductions, while remaining within its approved plan budget. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without markup through the PGC. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2011, 40% of PECOs current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO, of which, 34% was for commercial and industrial customers participating in PECOs High Volume Transportation Program and 6% was for residential and small commercial customers participating in PECOs Low Volume Transportation Choice Program. PECO provides distribution service, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to all customers in PECOs service territory. Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases. On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECOs natural gas distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million, which became effective in natural gas distribution rates on January 1, 2011. Procurement Proceedings. PECOs natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers primarily under long term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECOs 2011 2012 heating season planned supplies. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction commitments under PJMs RTEP as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $436 million, which includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements. 22 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees. PJM is the ISO and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. ComEds transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERCs order establishes the agreed upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis. As a result of PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO default service customers are charged for retail transmission services through a rider designed to recover PECOs PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement. The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff under which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale transmission service. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services. 23 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2011, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,267 employees in the following companies, of which 8,567 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAs (c) Total EmployeesCovered by CBAs TotalEmployees Generation 1,697 150 1,813 3,660 9,586 ComEd 3,561 3,561 5,769 PECO 1,237 1,237 2,418 Other (d) 82 27 109 1,494 Total 5,340 1,387 1,840 8,567 19,267 (a) A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 42 employees in ComEds System Services Group. (b) 1,237 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 150 employees. (c) During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally expire between 2013 and 2015, except for the agreements at Braidwood, Byron and TMI, which expire in 2012. Additionally, during 2009, a 5 year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. In 2010, a 3 year agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees. In 2011, four 3 year agreements were reached at Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities. (d) Other includes shared services employees at BSC. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelons strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd and PECO. Water Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities 24 Table of Contents discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. Environmental Remediation ComEds and PECOs environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECOs 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011. The amount to be expended in 2012 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $32 million, consisting of $26 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Generations environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at current or former generation facilities. As of December 31, 2011, Generation has established an appropriate accrual to comply with environmental remediation requirements which includes an accrual for contamination attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named Latty Avenue near St. Louis, Missouri formerly owned by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary. 25 Table of Contents See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations owned coal fired units. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the CSAPR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal and oil fired electric generating facilities under the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2011. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel fired generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions. However, only approximately 5% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change. Climate Change Regulation. Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels. International Climate Change Regulation. At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2011 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 17) Conference in Durban, South Africa, a 26 Table of Contents package of decisions was adopted that initiate another commitment phase for the Kyoto Protocol and initiating a new round of discussions with the objective of establishing a successor agreement by 2015 that would commence beginning in 2020. These decisions build on the agreements reached in the 2009 Copenhagen Accord, including the United States agreeing to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions. Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. It is uncertain when any mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions would be established in the future. If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits. The U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of GHG emissions regulation for new stationary sources through its proposed New Source Performance Standard under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. Such proposed regulation has the potential to cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance for GHG emissions from stationary sources. Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an inter state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations. At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission intensity and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment in 2005 under the U.S. EPAs Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by reducing its CO2e emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. 27 Table of Contents In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. In 2010, Exelon announced that it had achieved just over 50% of the annual Exelon 2020 goal. The retirement of fossil units, Cromby Units 1 and 2 and Eddystone Unit 1 in 2011 and the planned retirement of Eddystone Unit 2 in 2012, will further contribute to fully achieving the goal. The early retirement of Oyster Creek may result in increased generation from fossil generating plants in the PJM RTO, which could result in increased GHG emissions under Exelon 2020 through reverse displacement. The current plan for achieving the Exelon 2020 goal accounts for these events. Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds Smart Ideas portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant awards. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelons emissions reduction efforts will position the company to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal climate policy, Exelon 2020 strategy has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business strategy. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Thirty three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future. 28 Table of Contents The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The AEPS Act was effective for PECO on January 1, 2011, following the expiration of PECOs transition period. During 2011, PECO was required to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing by products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to purchase non solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts. Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generations retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in Illinois and Pennsylvania from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 9, 2012 Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Exelon 2004 2008 President, Generation 2007 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present 29 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Crane, Christopher M. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Clark, Frank M. 66 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present OBrien, Denis P. 51 Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 57 President, Exelon Business Services Company 2005 Present Executive Vice President, Exelon 2008 Present Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon 2010 Present Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2002 2008 Von Hoene Jr., William A. 58 Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon 2009 Present Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2009 Senior Vice President, Exelon 2006 2008 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Cornew, Kenneth W. 46 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Dominguez, Joseph 48 Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 30 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Pramaggiore, Anne R. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Bradford, Darryl M. 56 Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon 2010 Present General Counsel, ComEd 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, ComEd 2007 2009 DesParte, Duane M. 48 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2008 Present Vice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2008 Generation Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director, ComEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present Crane, Christopher M. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Executive Vice President, Exelon 2007 2008 President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon 2004 2007 Pardee, Charles G. 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2010 Present President, Exelon Nuclear 2008 2010 Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2008 Chief Operating Officer, Generation 2005 2007 Cornew, Kenneth W. 46 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team 2008 Present Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team 2007 2008 Pacilio, Michael J. 51 President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation 2010 Present Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear 2007 2010 Senior Vice President, Mid West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 31 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Garg, Sunil 45 Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 2010 Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Dominguez, Joseph 48 Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon 2010 Present Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation 2010 2010 Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation 2007 2010 Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Hilzinger, Matthew F. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation 2008 Present Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company 2011 Present Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 2005 2008 Galvanoni, Matthew R. 39 Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2009 Present Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO 2007 2009 32 Table of Contents ComEd Name Age Position Period Clark, Frank M. 66 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd 2005 Present Director, ComEd 2002 Present Pramaggiore, Anne R. 53 President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd 2009 Present Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd 2005 2007 Hooker, John T. 63 Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd 2008 2009 Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd 2005 2008 Donnelly, Terence R. 51 Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd 2007 2009 Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd 2007 2007 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2004 2007 Trpik Jr., Joseph R. 42 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company 2007 2009 Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon 2004 2009 Marquez Jr., Fidel 50 Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd 2009 Present Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd 2007 2009 ONeill, Thomas S. 49 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd 2010 Present Senior Vice President, Exelon 2009 2010 Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation; Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon 2009 2009 Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation 2007 2009 Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear 2005 2007 33 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Anthony, J. Tyler 47 Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd 2010 Present Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd 2007 2010 Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO 2007 2007 Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation 2006 2007 Waden, Kevin J. 40 Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd 2009 Present Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd 2007 2009 Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery 2003 2007 PECO Name Age Position Period Rowe, John W. 66 Chairman, Generation 2008 Present Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon 2000 Present Chairman, PECO 2007 Present President, Generation 2007 2008 President, Exelon 2004 2008 Director. CornEd 2009 Present Director, PECO 2005 Present OBrien, Denis P. 51 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO 2007 Present President and Director, PECO 2003 Present Adams, Craig L. 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company 2004 2007 Barnett, Phillip S. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO 2007 Present Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon 2005 2007 Bonney, Paul R. 53 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO 2009 Present General Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO 2007 2009 Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company 2001 2007 Diaz Jr., Romulo L. 65 Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO 2009 Present Associate General Counsel, Exelon 2008 2009 City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia 2005 2008 Acevedo, Jorge A. 40 Vice President and Controller, PECO 2009 Present Assistant Treasurer, PECO 2010 Present Assistant Controller, Generation 2007 2009 Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation 2003 2007 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond the Registrants control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the risk oversight and audit committees of the Exelon board of directors and the ComEd and PECO boards of directors. In addition, the Exelon board of directors generation oversight and energy delivery oversight committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the known material risks that affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed by a Registrant to be material that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition in the future. The Registrants most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generations position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants major risks fall primarily under the following categories: Market and Financial Risks. Exelons and Generations market and financial risks include the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants receive, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Registrants regulatory and legislative risks include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelons and Generations financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generations ability to sell power into the competitive wholesale power markets at market based prices. In addition, potential regulation and legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Operational Risks. The Registrants operational risks include those risks inherent in running the nations largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelons ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation. As a result of the merger agreement announced with Constellation on April 28, 2011, Exelon is subject to additional risks. 35 Table of Contents A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation hedges the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, through long term power purchase agreements. Absent any hedging activity through long term, fixed price transactions, Generation would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices in the markets in which its assets are located, which would mean that Generations cash flows would vary accordingly. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, and, therefore, the market price of power will reflect the market price of the marginal fuel. As such, changes in the market price of fossil fuels will cause comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affecting the its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, further delay or elimination of EPA air quality regulations will tend to place downward pressure on market prices and could reduce Generations revenue, and, therefore, adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output, and could also result in an impairment of such plants. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Worse than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity. If this continues, it could adversely affect the Registrants ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. A slow recovery could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could also adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks in the wholesale power market that are beyond its control and may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. 36 Table of Contents In addition, Generations retail sales subject it to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets remain evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generations business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generations NDTs and Exelons employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generations nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements may also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad can adversely affect the Registrants ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within 37 Table of Contents a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. In addition, the Registrants have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of its trading counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under its hedging arrangements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of the applicable hedge, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEds financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon 38 Table of Contents its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECOs operating agreement with PJM and its natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECOs collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current regulatory environments in Illinois and Pennsylvania become less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the applicable state or adopting other measures to mitigate higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if its financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd or PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants cash flows. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. 39 Table of Contents Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generations asset based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generations financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass the tests administered by FERC, Generation could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with ComEd, PECO and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets. 40 Table of Contents Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions and for the IRS to withdraw its assertion of a $110 million substantial understatement penalty related to the involuntary conversion position. However, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement on the like kind exchange position. Exelon expects to initiate litigation on this matter during 2012. If the IRS is successful in its challenge to the like kind exchange position, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2011, Exelons potential cash outflow, including tax and interest, could be as much as $860 million, of which $550 million would be paid by ComEd and the remainder by Exelon. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, Exelons results of operations could also be negatively impacted due to increased interest expense of up to $260 million, net of tax, of which $200 million would be recorded at ComEd and the remainder at Exelon. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the like kind exchange position, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after tax charge of $86 million to Exelons and ComEds results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of the like kind exchange matter are unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEds and PECOs current procurement plans include purchasing power through contracted suppliers and in the spot market. ComEds and PECOs costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. For PECO, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas can result in declines in customer usage, lower electric transmission and distribution revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for ComEd and PECO as well as lower gas distribution revenues for PECO. Also, ComEds and PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. In addition to increased purchased power charges for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, the impact of economic downturns on ComEd and PECOs customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations 41 Table of Contents on residential service terminations may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for further discussion of the Registrants credit risk. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Generations operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought like conditions limiting water usage can impact Generations ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak. Certain long lived assets recorded on the Registrants statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Long lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants statement of financial position. Specifically, long lived assets account for 59%, 49%, 58% and 64% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The Registrants evaluate for impairment the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used whenever indications of impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the long lived asset through a non cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases extending through 2028 2032. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these leased assets to determine whether any indications of impairment exist. In determining the estimate of residual value, the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. An impairment would require Exelon to reduce the value of its investment in the plants through a non cash charge to expense. Such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons results of operations. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2011 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill 42 Table of Contents to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. A fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions used in estimating ComEds fair value (e.g., discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt) could result in an impairment. Such an impairment would result in a non cash charge to expense, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Notes 5 and 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long lived asset and goodwill impairments. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments by Generation in energy generation and by ComEd and PECO in transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. The Registrants results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS for further information regarding the Registrants potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon or its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Due to its significant contractual agreements with ComEd, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds continued payments under these contracts and would be adversely affected by negative events impacting these contracts, including the non performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. A default by ComEd under these contracts would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers where Generation serves load can switch from their respective energy delivery company to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of an electric 43 Table of Contents distribution companies default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is retail customers switching to or from competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from its retail load serving counterparties than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more customers switch than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse regulatory and legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelons and Generations operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelons, ComEds and PECOs operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on the ability of ComEd and PECO to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power to their customers. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting the Registrants businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in a region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low carbon nuclear assets. However, regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high because the competitive model is not working, and, therefore, are facing calls for some form of re regulation or some other means of 44 Table of Contents reducing wholesale market prices. As the energy markets continue to mature, if the number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings shrinks, this could also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes have expired, is expected to continue. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives. Approximately 75% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on 1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, such as PJMs, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market. Generation could also be adversely affected by state laws designed to reduce wholesale prices artificially below competitive levels, such as the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. In addition, FERCs application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERCs tests for market based rates. Since Order 697 became final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generations authority to sell at market based rates and none denying that authority. Generations most recent submission seeking reauthorization to sell at market based rates was accepted by FERC on June 22, 2011 for the PJM region. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis that unfolded during the Fall of 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a brand new regulatory regime applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. The significance of the effect on Generation will depend in part on whether it is determined to be a swap dealer or a qualifying end user through a self identification process, based on the meaning of those terms established in the final rules. If Generation is deemed a swap dealer, it will be required to register with the CFTC and execute most bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This requirement could cause Generation to commit substantial additional capital to support the business and to cover increases in its collateral costs associated with margin requirements of the major exchanges such as the NYMEX. Generation would also face increased reporting and record keeping requirements, would have to abide by CFTC specified business conduct standards, and adhere to position limits in a potentially broad range of energy commodities. Even if Generation is not deemed a swap dealer, it will still face additional regulatory obligations under Dodd Frank, including some reporting requirements, clearing some additional transactions that it would otherwise enter into over the counter, and having to adhere to position limits. More fundamentally, however, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral OTC swaps market to decreases substantially. As Generations hedging program relies heavily on its ability to access the current bilateral OTC swaps market, the new rules could impede Generations ability to meet its hedge targets in a cost effective manner. Generation continues to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process. Generation cannot predict the ultimate outcome that Dodd Frank will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 45 Table of Contents Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies are one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. Pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP regarding the application of Section 316(b) to Oyster Creek, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. 46 Table of Contents In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators in establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the recently enacted EIMA and appeals in connection with ComEds 2007 and 2010 Illinois electric distribution rate cases. Federal or additional state RPS and or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers. 47 Table of Contents Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs and investments in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP and NERC compliance requirements. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Uncertainties exist as to the construction of new transmission facilities, their cost and how those costs will be allocated to transmission system participants and customers. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. ComEd and PECO as transmission owners are subject to NERC compliance requirements. NERC provides guidance to transmission owners regarding assessments of transmission lines. The results of these assessments may require ComEd and PECO to incur incremental capital or operating and maintenance expenditures to ensure their transmission lines meet NERC standards. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.8 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $ 610 million (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record the same amount of extraordinary gain and charge related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Further, Exelon would record a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $3.0 billion and $32 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEds goodwill, respectively. 48 Table of Contents Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS Global Climate Change and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PECO as operator of a natural gas distribution system is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants results of operations. Operational Risks The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. 49 Table of Contents Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations fleet of nuclear power plants and ComEds and PECOs distribution and transmission infrastructures could be impacted by natural disasters, such as seismic activity, more frequent and more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. An example of such an event was the 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami experienced by Japan on March 11, 2011, that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Also, in 2011, the Mid Atlantic region of the United States experienced a 5.8 magnitude earthquake and flooding associated with hurricane Irene and tropical storm Lee. These events increase the risk to Generation that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies may change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Generations continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect the Registrants operations and their ability to raise capital. Exelon does not know the impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. As owner operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, the Registrants face a risk that their operations would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect their operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect the Registrants results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. The Registrants would be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to committed third party sales, including ComEd and PECO. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. 50 Table of Contents Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and are currently planned to average approximately 26 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 26 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 60 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generations ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Furthermore, under its contract with the DOE, Generation would be required to pay the DOE a one time SNF storage fee including interest of approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2011, prior to the first delivery of SNF. Generation currently estimates 2020 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the spent nuclear fuel obligation. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license period. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. 51 Table of Contents As an example, prior to the Fukushima Daiichi accident on March 11, 2011, the NRC had been evaluating seismic risk. After the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the NRCs focus on seismic risk intensified. As part of the NRC Near Term Task Force (Task Force) review and evaluation of the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the Task Force recommended that plant operators conduct seismic reevaluations. In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. These reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for a more detailed discussion of the Task Force Recommendations. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, Generation may not achieve the anticipated results under its series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generations results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could effect transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. The required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. 52 Table of Contents Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations two units that have been retired) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation would be unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed licenses of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. 53 Table of Contents ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities, including information systems, used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather or information systems failure. Specifically, if the implementation of advanced metering infrastructure, smart grid or other technologies in ComEd or PECOs service territory fail to perform as intended or are not successfully integrated with billing and other information systems, ComEd and PECOs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The aforementioned failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers, and those damages could be material to ComEds results of operations and cash flows. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize ComEd and PECOs ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants face information security risks as the owner operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A security breach of the Registrants information systems could impact the operation of the generation fleet and or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject 54 Table of Contents them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. ComEd and PECOs deployment of smart meters throughout their service territories may increase the risk of damage from an intentional disruption of the system by third parties. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. In addition, new or updated security regulations would require changes in current measures taken by the Registrants and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions intended to fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation Because the market price of shares of Exelon common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, the merger consideration at the date of the closing may vary significantly from the date the merger agreement was executed. Upon completion of the merger, each outstanding share of Constellation common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.930 of a share of Exelon common stock. The number of shares of Exelon common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement for each share of Constellation common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of Exelon or Constellation common stock. The market price of Exelon common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the market prices of Exelon common stock on the date the merger agreement was executed. In addition, Exelon might not complete the merger until a significant period of time has passed after the respective special shareholder meetings to approve the merger occurred. Because Exelon will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of Exelon common stock or Constellation common stock, the market value of the Exelon common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Constellation common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Exelon or Constellation prior to or following the merger, litigation or regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Exelon and Constellation. Neither Exelon nor Constellation is permitted to terminate the merger agreement solely because of changes in the market price of either companys common stock. The combined companys assets, liabilities or results of operations could be adversely affected by unknown or unexpected events, conditions or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The Constellation assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects to be acquired or assumed by Exelon by reason of the merger could be adversely affected 55 Table of Contents before or after the merger closing as a result of previously unknown events or conditions occurring or existing before the merger closing. Adverse changes in Constellations business or operations could occur or arise as a result of actions by Constellation, legal or regulatory developments including the emergence or unfavorable resolution of pre acquisition loss contingencies, deteriorating general business, market, industry or economic conditions, and other factors both within and beyond the control of Constellation. A significant decline in the value of Constellation assets to be acquired by Exelon or a significant increase in Constellation liabilities to be assumed by Exelon could adversely affect the combined companys future business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects. The merger agreement contains provisions that limit each of Exelons and Constellations ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, which could discourage a potential acquirer of either Constellation or Exelon from making an alternative transaction proposal and, in certain circumstances, could require Exelon or Constellation to pay to the other a significant termination fee. Under the merger agreement, Exelon and Constellation are restricted, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into alternative transactions in lieu of the merger. In general, unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, both Exelon and Constellation are restricted from, among other things, soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or facilitating a competing acquisition proposal from any person. Each of the Exelon board of directors and the Constellation board of directors is limited in its ability to change its recommendation with respect to the merger related proposals. Exelon or Constellation may terminate the merger agreement and enter into an agreement with respect to a superior proposal only if specified conditions have been satisfied, including compliance with the non solicitation provisions of the merger agreement. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Exelon or Constellation from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the consideration proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it would otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. Exelon and Constellation will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and could adversely affect their financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on Exelon and or Constellation. These uncertainties may impair Exelons and or Constellations ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with Exelon or Constellation to seek to change existing business relationships with Exelon or Constellation. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may also place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect Exelons and or Constellations financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts each of Exelon and Constellation, without the others consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions while the merger is 56 Table of Contents pending. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and or Constellation from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their respective businesses prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. If completed, the merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon and Constellation may be unable to integrate their operations in the manner expected. Exelon and Constellation entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and Constellation can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined companys ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger as and when expected. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined companys future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The merger may not be accretive to earnings and may cause dilution to Exelons earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of Exelons common stock. Exelon currently anticipates that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share in 2013, which is expected to be the first full year following completion of the merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. Exelon also could encounter additional transaction and integration related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in Exelons adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of Exelons common stock. Exelon may record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect its operating results. Accounting standards in the United States require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Constellation common stock by Exelon and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The assets and liabilities of Constellation will be consolidated with those of Exelon. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Constellations assets and liabilities, if any, will be recorded as goodwill. The amount of goodwill, which could be material, will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. Exelon is required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value of reporting units to the carrying value of those reporting units. To the extent the carrying value of any of those reporting units is greater than the fair value, a second step comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount would be required to determine if the goodwill is impaired. Such a potential impairment could result in a material charge that would have a material impact on Exelons future operating results and consolidated balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Pending litigation against Exelon and Constellation could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and may adversely affect the combined companys business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows following the merger. Twelve purported class action lawsuits were filed against Constellation, each member of Constellations board of directors, Exelon and Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, in connection with the merger. Among other things, the lawsuits sought injunctive relief that would have prevented completion of the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. The parties to the litigation have reached a settlement that remains subject to court approval. If the settlement is not approved by the court, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to Exelon and Constellation, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Exelon, Constellation and or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the combined companys business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The merger is subject to the receipt of consent or approval from governmental entities that could delay the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause abandonment of the merger. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of consents, orders, approvals or clearances, to the extent required, from the FERC, the NRC, the FCC, and the public utility commissions or similar entities in certain states in which the companies operate, including the Maryland Public Service Commission. The merger is also subject to review by the DOJ Antitrust Division, under the HSR Act, and the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period (and any extension of the waiting period) applicable to the merger is a condition to closing the merger. As of February 9, 2012, the merger remains subject to the approval of the NRC, FERC and the Maryland Public Service Commission, which may impose conditions for approval beyond those already proposed by Exelon and Constellation. The shareholders of Exelon and Constellation approved the proposals required to complete the merger at the special meetings of the shareholders before any or all of the required regulatory approvals have been obtained and before all conditions to such approvals, if any, are known. As a result, Exelon and Constellation may subsequently agree to conditions without seeking further shareholder approval, even if such conditions could have an adverse effect on Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Exelon and Constellation cannot provide assurance that all required regulatory consents or approvals will be obtained or that these consents or approvals will not contain terms, conditions or restrictions that would be detrimental to the combined company after the completion of the merger. The merger agreement generally permits each party to terminate the merger agreement if the final terms of any of the required regulatory consents or approvals require (1) any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over any nuclear or hydroelectric or pumped storage generation assets of the parties or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates; or (2) any action (including any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over base load capacity), without including those actions proposed by the parties mutually agreed upon analysis of mitigation to address the increased market concentration resulting from the merger and the concessions announced by the parties in the press release announcing the merger agreement, which would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either party. Any substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals, receipt of proceeds from 58 Table of Contents required divestitures in an amount substantially lower than anticipated or the imposition of any terms or conditions in connection with such approvals could cause a material reduction in the expected benefits of the merger. If any such delays or conditions are serious enough, the parties may decide to abandon the merger. Exelon cannot assure that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate. Exelon currently expects to pay dividends in an amount consistent with the dividend policy of Exelon in effect prior to the completion of the merger. However, there is no assurance that Exelon shareholders will receive the same dividends following the merger for reasons that may include any of the following factors: Exelon may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in Exelons cash requirements, capital spending plans, financing agreements, cash flow or financial position; decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Exelon board of directors, which reserves the right to change Exelons dividend practices at any time and for any reason; the amount of dividends that Exelon may distribute to its shareholders is subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania law; and Exelon may not receive dividend payments from its subsidiaries in the same level that it has historically. The ability of Exelons subsidiaries to make dividend payments to it is subject to factors similar to those listed above. Exelons shareholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared. If completed, the merger may adversely affect the combined companys ability to attract and retain key employees. Current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the combined company following the completion of the merger. In addition, current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may determine that they do not desire to work for the combined company for a variety of possible reasons. These factors may adversely affect the combined companys ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect the share prices and the future businesses and financial results of Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by governmental agencies will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing businesses of Exelon or Constellation may be adversely affected and Exelon and Constellation will be subject to several risks, including: having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon; Exelon and Constellation will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses, which may have prevented them from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger is pending; and 59 Table of Contents the share price of Exelon or Constellation may decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the merger will be completed. Exelon and Constellation may incur unexpected transaction fees and merger related costs in connection with the merger. Exelon and Constellation expect to incur a number of non recurring expenses, totalling approximately $150 million, associated with completing the merger, as well as expenses related to combining the operations of the two companies. The combined company may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Exelon and Constellation. Although Exelon expects that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. Current Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. Exelon will issue or reserve for issuance approximately 201.9 million shares of Exelon common stock to Constellation stockholders in the merger (including shares of Exelon common stock issuable pursuant to Constellation stock options and other equity based awards). Based on the number of shares of common stock of Exelon and Constellation outstanding on March 31, 2011, the record date for the two companies special meetings of shareholders, upon the completion of the merger, current Exelon shareholders and former Constellation stockholders would own approximately 78% and 22% of the outstanding shares of Exelon common stock, respectively, immediately following the consummation of the merger. Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders currently have the right to vote for their respective directors and on other matters affecting their company. When the merger occurs, each Constellation stockholder who receives shares of Exelon common stock will become a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholders percentage ownership of Constellation. Correspondingly, each Exelon shareholder will remain a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholders percentage of Exelon prior to the merger. As a result of these reduced ownership percentages, Exelon shareholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Exelon, and former Constellation stockholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Constellation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 60 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2011: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,348 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,323 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,067 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,753 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,316 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,312 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 (e) Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50 Uranium Base load 1,150 (f) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75 Uranium Base load 1,380 (f) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 1,004 (f) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 17,115 Fossil (Steam Turbines)(g) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (f) Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (f) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wolf Hollow 1, 2 Granbury, TX 2 Gas Intermediate 425 Wolf Hollow 3 Granbury, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 280 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (f) 4,446 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 391 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 28 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 98 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,437 61 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (f) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 7 Hydroelectric and Other Renewables AgriWind Bureau Co., IL 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) Blue Breezes Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 3 Bluegrass Ridge Gentry Co., MO 27 99 Wind Base load 56 (f) Brewster Jackson Co., MN 6 94 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) Cassia Twin Falls Co., ID 14 Wind Base load 29 Cisco Jackson Co., MN 4 99 Wind Base load 8 (f) City Solar Chicago, IL n.a. Solar Base load 10 Conception Nodaway Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Cow Branch Atchinson Co., MO 24 Wind Base load 50 Cowell Pipestone Co., MN 1 99 Wind Base load 2 (f) CP Windfarm Faribault Co., MN 2 Wind Base load 4 Echo 1 Umatilla Co., OR 21 99 Wind Base load 34 (f) Echo 2 Morrow Co., OR 10 Wind Base load 20 Echo 3 Morrow Co., OR 6 99 Wind Base load 10 (f) Exelon Wind 1 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 2 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 3 Hansford Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 4 Hansford Co., TX 38 Wind Base load 80 Exelon Wind 5 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 6 Sherman Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 7 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 8 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 9 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 10 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Exelon Wind 11 Moore Co., TX 8 Wind Base load 10 Ewington Jackson Co., MN 10 99 Wind Base load 20 (f) Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Greensburg Kiowa Co., KS 10 Wind Base load 13 Harvest Huron Co., MI 32 Wind Base load 53 High Plains Moore Co., TX 8 99.5 Wind Base load 10 (f) Loess Hills Atchinson Co., MO 4 Wind Base load 5 Marshall Lyon Co., MN 9 98 99 Wind Base load 19 (f) Michigan Wind 1 Bingham Twp., MI 46 Wind Base load 69 Michigan Wind 2 Bingham Twp., MI 50 Wind Base load 90 Mountain Home Elmore Co., ID 20 Wind Base load 40 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 Norgaard Lincoln Co., MN 7 99 Wind Base load 9 (f) Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Threemile Canyon Morrow Co., OR 6 Wind Base load 10 62 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Tuana Springs Twin Falls Co., ID 8 Wind Base load 17 Wolf Nobles Co., MN 5 99 Wind Base load 6 (f) 2,539 Total 25,544 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system and, consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours and, consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of lower efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines and diesels normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. Fossil stations reflect a summer rating. For wind stations, reflects the name plate capacity. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Generation has agreed to permanently cease generation operation at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (g) Excludes Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 2, which is operating pursuant to a reliability must run (RMR) agreement with PJM through May 31, 2012. Eddystone Unit 2 will cease operations upon the end of the RMR period. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, transmission congestion, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies or generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2011 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,642 138,000 2,237 63 Table of Contents ComEds electric distribution system includes 35,569 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,408 circuit miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds First Mortgage Bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a significant portion of its transmission lines are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs high voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2011 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 200 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500 kV lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500 kV lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,972 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,851 circuit miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2011: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,732 Service piping 4,533 Total 11,296 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in 64 Table of Contents Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 32 natural gas city gate stations and direct pipeline customer delivery points at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Not Applicable to the Registrants. 65 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2012, there were 663,640,976 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 125,092 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2011 2010 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 45.45 $ 45.27 $ 42.89 $ 43.58 $ 44.49 $ 43.32 $ 45.10 $ 49.88 Low price 39.93 39.51 39.53 39.06 39.05 37.63 37.24 42.97 Close 43.37 42.61 42.84 41.24 41.64 42.58 37.97 43.81 Dividends 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 66 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2007 through 2011. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2006 in Exelon common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2012, Exelon indirectly held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2012, there were 127,016,529 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 31, 2012, in addition to Exelon, there were 240 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 67 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2012, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with a financing arranged through ComEd Financing III that ComEd will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. No such event has occurred. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred securities. At December 31, 2011, such capital was $2.9 billion and amounted to about 34 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred securities of $87 million. PECO has agreed in connection with financings arranged through PEC L.P. and PECO Trust IV that PECO will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. No such event has occurred. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million, partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficits, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. 68 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2011 2010 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 111 $ 61 $ $ $ 885 $ 206 $ 156 $ 261 ComEd 75 75 75 75 85 75 75 75 PECO 80 84 73 111 46 63 51 64 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. 69 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,924 $ 18,644 $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 Operating income 4,480 4,726 4,750 5,299 4,668 Income from continuing operations $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 Income from discontinued operations 1 20 10 Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 Income from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 Net income $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 665 663 662 662 676 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,489 $ 6,398 $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 Property, plant and equipment, net 32,570 29,941 27,341 25,813 24,153 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,839 4,140 4,872 5,940 5,133 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Other deferred debits and other assets 9,569 9,136 8,901 8,038 8,760 Total assets $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 Current liabilities $ 4,989 $ 4,240 $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,189 12,004 11,385 12,592 11,965 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,771 3,555 3,492 2,520 3,301 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 19,668 18,791 17,338 17,489 14,131 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Noncontrolling interest 3 3 Shareholders equity 14,385 13,560 12,640 11,047 10,137 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 (a) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. (b) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 70 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 Operating income 2,876 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 Income from continuing operations $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ 2,025 Income from discontinued operations 20 4 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,204 $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,475 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 Other deferred debits and other assets 10,754 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 Total assets $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 Current liabilities $ 2,144 $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 Long term debt 3,674 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,907 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 Noncontrolling interest 5 5 2 1 1 Members equity 8,703 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 Total liabilities and members equity $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 71 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 Operating income 982 1,056 843 667 512 Net income 416 337 374 201 165 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,106 $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,121 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Noncurrent regulatory assets 796 947 1,096 858 503 Other deferred debits and other assets 4,005 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 Total assets $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 Current liabilities $ 1,946 $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 5,421 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,167 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 5,082 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 Shareholders equity 7,037 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 72 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,924 $ 18,644 $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 Operating income 4,480 4,726 4,750 5,299 4,668 Income from continuing operations $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 Income from discontinued operations 1 20 10 Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 Income from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 Net income $ 3.75 $ 3.87 $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 665 663 662 662 676 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,489 $ 6,398 $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 Property, plant and equipment, net 32,570 29,941 27,341 25,813 24,153 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,839 4,140 4,872 5,940 5,133 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Other deferred debits and other assets 9,569 9,136 8,901 8,038 8,760 Total assets $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 Current liabilities $ 4,989 $ 4,240 $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,189 12,004 11,385 12,592 11,965 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,771 3,555 3,492 2,520 3,301 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 19,668 18,791 17,338 17,489 14,131 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Noncontrolling interest 3 3 Shareholders equity 14,385 13,560 12,640 11,047 10,137 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 55,092 $ 52,240 $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 (a) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. (b) Exelon retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 70 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 Operating income 2,876 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 Income from continuing operations $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ 2,025 Income from discontinued operations 20 4 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,204 $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,475 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 Other deferred debits and other assets 10,754 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 Total assets $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 Current liabilities $ 2,144 $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 Long term debt 3,674 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,907 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 Noncontrolling interest 5 5 2 1 1 Members equity 8,703 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 Total liabilities and members equity $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 71 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 Operating income 982 1,056 843 667 512 Net income 416 337 374 201 165 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,106 $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,121 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Noncurrent regulatory assets 796 947 1,096 858 503 Other deferred debits and other assets 4,005 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 Total assets $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 Current liabilities $ 1,946 $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 5,421 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,167 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 5,082 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 Shareholders equity 7,037 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 72 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 Operating income 2,876 3,046 3,295 3,994 3,392 Income from continuing operations $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ 2,025 Income from discontinued operations 20 4 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a)(b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,204 $ 3,087 $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,475 11,662 9,809 8,907 8,043 Other deferred debits and other assets 10,754 9,785 9,237 7,691 8,044 Total assets $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 Current liabilities $ 2,144 $ 1,843 $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 Long term debt 3,674 3,676 2,967 2,502 2,513 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,907 11,838 10,385 8,848 9,447 Noncontrolling interest 5 5 2 1 1 Members equity 8,703 7,172 6,790 6,565 4,369 Total liabilities and members equity $ 27,433 $ 24,534 $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 (a) Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. (b) Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 71 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 Operating income 982 1,056 843 667 512 Net income 416 337 374 201 165 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,106 $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,121 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Noncurrent regulatory assets 796 947 1,096 858 503 Other deferred debits and other assets 4,005 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 Total assets $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 Current liabilities $ 1,946 $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 5,421 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,167 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 5,082 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 Shareholders equity 7,037 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 72 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 Operating income 982 1,056 843 667 512 Net income 416 337 374 201 165 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,106 $ 2,151 $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,121 12,578 12,125 11,655 11,127 Goodwill 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Noncurrent regulatory assets 796 947 1,096 858 503 Other deferred debits and other assets 4,005 3,351 3,272 2,790 3,880 Total assets $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 Current liabilities $ 1,946 $ 2,134 $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 5,421 4,860 4,704 4,915 4,384 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,167 3,137 3,145 2,440 3,447 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 5,082 4,611 4,369 3,994 3,305 Shareholders equity 7,037 6,910 6,882 6,735 6,528 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 22,653 $ 21,652 $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 72 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 Operating income 655 661 697 699 947 Net income 389 324 353 325 507 Net income on common stock 385 320 349 321 503 December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,216 $ 1,670 $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,874 5,620 5,297 5,074 4,842 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,243 968 1,834 2,597 3,273 Other deferred debits and other assets 823 727 882 679 895 Total assets $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 Current liabilities $ 1,126 $ 1,163 $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 Long term debt, including long term debt tofinancing trusts 1,781 2,156 2,405 2,960 2,866 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 604 418 317 49 250 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,620 2,278 2,706 2,910 3,068 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,938 2,883 2,565 2,182 2,023 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,156 $ 8,985 $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 73 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as a reportable segment: Generation, whose business consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income taxes, except as noted. Exelons net income was $2,495 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $2,563 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and diluted earnings per average common share were $3.75 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.87 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, which is a non GAAP measure discussed below, decreased by $413 million primarily related to a decrease in CTC recoveries at PECO of $995 million as a result of the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. This impact on Exelons operating income was partially offset by decreased CTC amortization expense discussed below. Mark to market losses of $288 million in 2011 from Generations hedging activities compared to $86 million in mark to market gains in 2010 also had an unfavorable impact on Generations operating results. In addition, Generations operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense decreased by $534 million in the Midwest due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. Partially offsetting these unfavorable impacts were increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $847 million in the Mid Atlantic due to increased margins on volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, and 74 Table of Contents increased operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense of $201 million in the South and West primarily driven by the performance of Exelons generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August of 2011. Operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was also impacted favorably by additional revenues from Exelon Wind, which was acquired in December 2010, and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. The decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was also partially offset by the 2010 impact of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances, as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule received in 2011. ComEds and PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense increased by $89 million and $155 million, respectively, as a result of improved pricing primarily due to the new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011 at ComEd and new electric and natural gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 at PECO. ComEds operating revenues also increased by $29 million as a result of increased ComEd distribution revenue pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating and maintenance expense increased by $596 million in 2011 primarily as a result of increased labor, other benefits, contracting and materials expenses of $241 million, including Exelon Wind, $88 million of costs related to the acquisitions of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed merger with Constellation and a $74 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant. Exelons results were also affected by a $37 million increase in uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd, principally due to the approval of the recovery rider mechanism by the ICC in 2010. The increase was also attributable to higher storm costs in the ComEd and PECO service territories of $70 million and $13 million, respectively, which were partially offset at ComEd by a credit of $55 million, net of amortization, for the allowed recovery of certain 2011 storm costs pursuant to EIMA. These costs were partially offset by one time net benefits of $32 million to re establish plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan pursuant to the 2010 ComEd Rate Case order recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $740 million primarily due to a decrease in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $885 million resulting from the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased depreciation expense primarily due to additional plant placed in service and the acquisition of Exelon Wind. Exelons results were favorably impacted by decreased interest expense of $91 million primarily due to the impact of the 2010 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets and CTCs collected by PECO, which resulted in interest expense of $59 million and $36 million, respectively, in 2010. In addition, in 2011, Exelon recorded interest income and tax benefits of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, due to the 2011 NDT fund special transfer tax deduction. The decrease in interest expense was partially offset by higher interest expense at Generation and ComEd due to higher outstanding debt balances. Exelons results were also significantly affected by unrealized losses on NDT funds of $4 million in 2011 (compared to unrealized gains of $104 million in 2010) for Non Regulatory Agreement Units as a result of unfavorable market performance. Exelons results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were favorably impacted by certain prior year income tax related matters. In 2010, Exelon recorded a $65 million (after tax) charge to income tax expense as a result of health care legislation passed in March 2010 that includes a provision that reduces the deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes. This amount was partially offset by a non cash charge of $29 million (after tax) recorded at Exelon in 2011 for the remeasurement of deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. 75 Table of Contents For further detail regarding the financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including explanation of the non GAAP measure revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings. Exelons adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,763 million, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared with adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings of $2,689 million, or $4.06 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. In addition to net income, Exelon evaluates its operating performance using the measure of adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings because management believes it represents earnings directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investors overall understanding of year to year operating results and provide an indication of Exelons baseline operating performance excluding items that are considered by management to be not directly related to the ongoing operations of the business. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The following table provides a reconciliation between net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted (non GAAP) operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010: December 31, 2011 2010 (All amounts after tax; in millions, except per share amounts) EarningsperDilutedShare EarningsperDilutedShare Net Income $ 2,495 $ 3.75 $ 2,563 $ 3.87 Mark to Market Impact of Economic Hedging Activities (a) 174 0.27 (52 ) (0.08 ) Unrealized (Gains) Losses Related to NDT Fund Investments (b) 1 (52 ) (0.08 ) Retirement of Fossil Generating Units (c) 33 0.05 50 0.08 Asset Retirement Obligation Updates (d) 16 0.02 (7 ) (0.01 ) Constellation Acquisition Costs (e) 46 0.07 Other Acquisition Costs (f) 5 0.01 7 0.01 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Illinois Tax Rate Change Legislation (g) 29 0.04 Wolf Hollow Acquisition (h) (23 ) (0.03 ) Recovery of Costs Pursuant to Distribution Rate Case Order (i) (17 ) (0.03 ) Non Cash Remeasurement of Deferred Income Taxes (j) 4 0.01 Illinois Settlement Legislation (k) 13 0.02 Impairment of Certain Emissions Allowances (l) 35 0.05 City of Chicago Settlement with ComEd (m) 2 Non Cash Charge Resulting From Health Care Legislation (n) 65 0.10 Non Cash Remeasurement of Income Tax Uncertainties and Reassessment of State Deferred Income Taxes (o) 65 0.10 Adjusted (non GAAP) Operating Earnings $ 2,763 $ 4.16 $ 2,689 $ 4.06 (a) Reflects the impact of (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations economic hedging activities (net of taxes $114 million and $(34) million, respectively). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations hedging activities. 76 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the impact of unrealized (gains) losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on Generations NDT fund investments for Non Regulatory Agreement Units (net of taxes of $(3) million and $(50) million, respectively). See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations NDT fund investments. (c) Primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (net of taxes of $21 million and $32 million, respectively) associated with the planned retirement of four generating units, two of which were retired on May 31, 2011. Beginning June 1, 2011, reflects the net loss attributable to the remaining two units, which includes compensation for operating the units past their planned May 31, 2011 retirement date under a FERC approved reliability must run rate schedule. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Results of Operations Generation for additional detail related to the generating unit retirements. (d) Reflects the income statement impact for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the reduction in PECOs asset retirement obligation in 2011 (net of taxes of $(1) million), an increase in Generations Zions decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion in 2011 (net of taxes of $11 million) and the reduction in the asset retirement obligations at ComEd and PECO in 2010 (net of taxes of $(4) million). (e) Reflects certain costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with Exelons proposed acquisition of Constellation (net of taxes of $31 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Reflects certain costs incurred in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with Exelons acquisitions of Exelon Wind in 2010 (net of taxes of $4 million) and Antelope Valley in 2011 (net of taxes of $3 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (g) Reflects a one time, non cash charge to remeasure deferred taxes at higher corporate tax rates pursuant to the Illinois tax rate change legislation. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (h) Reflects a non cash bargain purchase gain (negative goodwill) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, net of acquisition costs (net of taxes of $15 million). See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (i) Reflects a one time benefit in 2011 to recover previously incurred costs as a result of the May 2011 ICC rate order (net of taxes of $5 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (j) Reflects the non cash impacts of the annual remeasurement of state deferred income taxes to reflect revised estimates of state apportionments. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the Illinois tax rate change legislation. (k) Reflects credits issued by Generation and ComEd in 2010 as a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation (net of taxes of $9 million). See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) Reflects the impairment of certain SO2 emissions allowances in 2010 as a result of declining market prices following the release of the EPAs proposed Transport Rule (net of taxes of $22 million). See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (m) Reflects costs associated with ComEds 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (net of taxes of $1). (n) Reflects a non cash charge to income taxes related to the passage of Federal health care legislation, which includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree prescription drug benefits for Federal income tax purposes to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the impact of the health care legislation. (o) Reflects the impact of remeasurements of income tax uncertainties. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Outlook for 2012 and Beyond. Acquisitions Proposed Merger with Constellation. On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock for stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellations shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of Constellation common stock. Based on Exelons closing share price on April 27, 2011, Constellation shareholders would receive $7.9 billion in total equity value. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The transaction requires approval by the shareholders of both Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the transaction is also conditioned upon review of the transaction by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and approval by the FERC, NRC, Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC), the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC), the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), and other state and federal regulatory bodies. As of February 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation have received 77 Table of Contents approval of the transaction from the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation, DOJ, PUCT and the NYPSC. Exelon and Constellation are awaiting final approval of the transaction from the MDPSC, FERC and NRC. On January 30, 2012, FERC published a notice on its website regarding a non public investigation of certain of Constellations power trading activities in and around the New York ISO from September 2007 through December 2008. Exelon continues to evaluate the matter in order to make an assessment regarding (1) the likely outcome of the investigation and (2) whether the ultimate resolution of the investigation will be material to the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Constellation before the merger or Exelon after the merger. Absent any delay in the FERC approval process, the companies anticipate closing the transaction in the first quarter of 2012. Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, the companies have proposed to divest three Constellation generating stations located in PJM, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. These stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland, include base load, coal fired generation units plus associated gas/oil units located at the same sites, and total 2,648 MW of generation capacity. In October 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the PJM Independent Market Monitor, who had previously raised market power concerns regarding the merger. The settlement contains a number of commitments by the merged company, including limiting the universe of potential buyers of the divested assets to entities without significant market shares in the relevant PJM markets. The settlement also includes assurances about how the merged company will bid its units into the PJM markets. The proposed divestiture and the settlement with the PJM Market Monitor were filed with FERC and the MDPSC and are included in its decision to issue a final order approving the merger. In December 2011, Exelon and Constellation reached a settlement with the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and other interested parties in connection with the regulatory proceedings pending before the MDPSC. As part of this settlement and the application for approval of the merger by MDPSC, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to BGE customers, the City of Baltimore and the state of Maryland, which results in a direct investment in the state of Maryland of more than $1 billion. This investment includes capital projects including development of new renewable and gas fired generation in Maryland, representing a substantial portion of the investment. In addition, in January 2012, Exelon and Constellation reached an agreement with Electricite de France (EDF) under which EDF has withdrawn its opposition to the Exelon Constellation merger. The terms address Constellation Energy Nuclear Group (CENG), a joint venture between Constellation and EDF that owns and operates three nuclear facilities with five generating units in Maryland and New York. The agreement reaffirms the terms of the joint venture. The agreement did not include any exchange of monetary consideration and Exelon does not expect the agreement will have a material effect on Exelon and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon was named in suits filed in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Maryland alleging that individual directors of Constellation breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger transaction and Exelon aided and abetted the individual directors breaches. Similar suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The suits sought to enjoin a Constellation shareholder vote on the proposed merger until all material information is disclosed and sought rescission of the proposed merger. During the third quarter, the parties to the suits reached an agreement in principle to settle the suits through additional disclosures to Constellation shareholders. The settlement is subject to court approval. Through December 31, 2011, Exelon has incurred approximately $77 million of expense associated with the transaction, primarily related to fees incurred as part of the acquisition. Exelon 78 Table of Contents currently estimates the total costs directly related to closing the transaction will be approximately $150 million, which include financial advisor, consultant, legal and SEC registration fees. In addition, Exelon estimates approximately $500 million of additional integration costs, primarily to be incurred in 2012 and 2013. Such costs are expected to be partially offset by projected merger related synergies in 2012 and fully offset in 2013 and beyond. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation or a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. The acquisition is anticipated to be break even to Exelons adjusted earnings in 2012 and is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013. Acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. On September 30, 2011, Generation announced its acquisition of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build, operate and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 homes on average per year. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020, a business and environmental strategy to eliminate the equivalent of Exelons 2001 carbon footprint. The project has a 25 year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The DOEs Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and cash flow accretive starting in 2013. The project is value accretive, and will have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. Acquisition of Wolf Hollow Generating Station. On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined cycle natural gas fired power plant in north Texas, pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. The acquisition builds on the Exelon commitment to clean energy as part of Exelon 2020. Generation recognized a $36 million bargain purchase gain (i.e., negative goodwill) as part of the transaction. The gain was included within other, net in Exelon and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In connection with the acquisition, Generation terminated and settled its long term PPA with Wolf Hollow; resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million, which is included within Operating Revenues (Other Revenue) in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. In addition to eliminating the existing power purchase agreement, Exelon expects the transaction will be accretive to free cash flow beginning in 2012. The transaction also creates long term value for Exelon by adding an efficient combined cycle natural gas fired plant to Exelons fleet in ERCOT. Acquisition of Exelon Wind. In December 2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolios expected output is already sold under long term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued at $32 million, of which approximately $16 million was paid during 2011. As a result, total consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. The acquisition currently provides incremental earnings, provides cash flows starting in 2013 and is a key part of Exelon 2020. 79 Table of Contents Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the Industrys Response On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities do not have the same operating risks as the Fukushima Daiichi plant because they meet the NRCs requirement that specifies all plants must be able to withstand the most severe natural phenomena historically reported for each plants surrounding area, with a significant margin for uncertainty. In addition, Generations plants are not located in significant earthquake zones or in regions where tsunamis are a threat. Generation believes its nuclear generating facilities are able to shut down safely and keep the fuel cooled through multiple redundant systems specifically designed to maintain electric power when electricity is lost from the grid. Further, Generations nuclear generating facilities also undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols. Prior to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC and licensees had been evaluating seismic risk in relation to the design basis of plants and whether additional regulatory action was required. In December 2011, the Commission directed the NRC staff to inform the Commissioners assistants of its plans for closing out the seismic risk issues previously under review and addressing the interdependency between those issues and the seismic risk recommendations identified in the report of the NRC Near Term Task Force on the Fukushima Daiichi Accident (Task Force) (discussed in more detail below). In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. The NRC has received various petitions from individuals and citizen groups regarding Mark I and II containment systems and requesting that actions be taken in response to the events in Japan. The NRC has either denied the petitions or acknowledged acceptance of the petitions as the subject of ongoing NRC staff and or Task Force reviews of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. These petitions could affect Dresden, Quad Cities, Oyster Creek and Peach Bottom stations (Mark I containment designs) and LaSalle and Limerick stations (Mark II containment designs). On July 12, 2011, the NRC Task Force issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The report is the first step in a systematic review that the NRC is conducting. The Task Forces report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The report includes recommendations to the NRC in three primary areas: 1) the overall structure and philosophy of the NRCs regulatory framework; 2) specific design requirements for the nuclear units; and 3) emergency preparedness. During the fourth quarter of 2011, as directed by the Commission, the NRC staff issued its recommendations for prioritizing and implementing the Task Force recommendations and an implementation schedule. Of note, the NRC staff confirmed the Task Forces conclusions that none of the findings arising from the Task Force review presented an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC staff evaluated the potential and relative safety enhancements to be realized from each recommendation and, based on that evaluation, classified the recommendations as falling in three tiers: Tier 1, reflecting near term recommendations to be initiated without unnecessary delay; Tier 2, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending receipt of additional information, completion of Tier 1 activities, or the availability of resources; and Tier 3, reflecting recommendations to be deferred pending an additional nine month review by the NRC staff. The near term recommendations falling in Tier 1 address seismic and flooding risks, coping with extended loss of power in a station blackout, protecting and increasing the amount of backup equipment, reliable hardened vents for Mark I and Mark II containment, enhancing procedures to address severe accidents and emergency planning, and enhancing spent fuel instrumentation. As instructed by the Commission, the NRC staff also identified additional issues not considered by the Task Force that may, in the staffs assessment, warrant regulatory action. Among the additional issues 80 Table of Contents identified are filtration of containment vents and the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage. The staff committed to provide an update on its evaluation of the additional issues within nine months. For each of the recommendations and additional issues, the NRC staffs proposed schedule provides for stakeholder input prior to taking regulatory action. In December 2011, the Commission approved the staffs prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Specifically, among other things, the Commission advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and or have the broadest applicability and to include filtration of containment vents with the Tier 1 review of Mark I and II containments, and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site specific circumstances and conditions and strive to complete and implement the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident within five years by 2016. The NRC and staffs next steps are to obtain stakeholder input and issue specific requirements associated with the prioritized recommendations. The requirements for the majority of the Tier 1 recommendations are anticipated to be received in the first quarter of 2012 with the requirements for the remaining Tier 1 recommendations following in 2014 and 2016. Generation is assessing the impacts of the NRC staffs evaluations and the Commissions approval of the recommendations, both from an operational and a financial impact standpoint. Until the specific requirements for each recommendation are established after obtaining stakeholder input, Generation is unable to determine with specificity the impact the recommendations may have on its nuclear units. However, Generation will continue to engage in nuclear industry assessments and actions. The Task Forces report did not recommend any changes to the existing nuclear licensing process in the United States or changes in the storage of spent nuclear fuel within the plants spent nuclear fuel pools. However, as noted above, the NRC staff identified the transfer of spent fuel to dry cask storage as an additional issue to be evaluated by the NRC staff over a nine month period. The facts surrounding what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, including the nature and extent of damages, the underlying causes of the situation, and the degree to which these factors apply to Generations nuclear generating facilities, are still under investigation, and will be for some time. Although the NRC staffs reports to the Commission and the Commissions approval of the recommendations and instructions to the NRC staff provide clarity with respect to issues that will be subject to regulatory review and action, the nature and degree of actions that will be required of Generation are still unknown and will be determined through the regulatory process after allowing for stakeholder input. As a result, Exelon and Generation are unable to conclude, at this time, to what extent any actions to comply with the requirements will impact their future results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risk factors. Since the events in Japan took place, Generation has continued to work with regulators and nuclear industry organizations to understand the events in Japan and apply lessons learned. The nuclear industry has already taken specific steps to respond. Generation has completed actions requested by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which included tests that verified its emergency equipment is available and functional, walk downs on its procedures related to critical safety equipment, confirmation of event response procedures and readiness to protect the spent fuel pool, and verification of current qualifications of operators and support staff needed to implement the procedures. Generation has been addressing additional actions requested by INPO for improving and maintaining core and spent fuel pool cooling during an extended loss of power for at least 24 hours. Generations plan for increasing the output through uprates of its nuclear generating stations has not changed as a result of the situation in Japan. However, Generation will continue to monitor NRC directives and guidance that may impact the uprates and, as it has in the past, evaluate each project at the appropriate time and cancel or defer any uprate project that is not considered economical, whether due to energy prices, potential increased regulation, or other factors. 81 Table of Contents Economic and Market Conditions Exelon has exposure to various market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular, the prices of natural gas and coal, which drive the wholesale market prices that Generations power plants can obtain for their output, (2) the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, (3) the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs, and (4) regulatory and legislative actions, such as the U.S. EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and U.S. EPAs Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). See Environmental Matters section below for further detail on CSAPR and the MATS. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is increasing natural gas supply and reserves, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on wholesale power prices, which results in a reduction in Exelons revenues. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Poor economic conditions, milder than normal weather and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity and or capacity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to a decline in demand for electricity. ComEd is projecting load demand to remain essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011, while PECO is projecting a decline of 5.4% in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the anticipated closing of three oil refineries in its service territory. Since September 30, 2011, natural gas prices for 2013 and 2014 have declined significantly; reflecting strong natural gas production and significantly warmer than normal weather so far this winter, as well as generally lowered expectations for gas demand and economic growth rates. Wholesale power prices have likewise decreased in response in part to the lower gas prices, and to the late December 2011 judicial stay of the EPAs CSAPR and various other market factors. Exelon has a policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods, which is intended to reduce the near term financial impact of market price volatility. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Exelon also has exposure to worldwide financial markets. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. Exelon routinely reviews its hedging policy, operating and capital costs, capital spending plans, and sufficiency of its liquidity position, by performing various stress tests with differing variables, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging practices, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Based on the results of these assessments, Exelon management believes it is able to respond to changing market conditions in a manner that ensures reliable and safe service for our customers and sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses. 82 Table of Contents Hedging Strategy. Exelons policy to hedge commodity risk on a ratable basis over three year periods is intended to reduce the financial impact of market price volatility. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including financially settled swaps, futures contracts and swap options, and physical options and physical forward contracts, all with credit approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2012 and 2013. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years with respect to which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio is currently unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk in subsequent years as well. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 has resulted in increases in margins earned by Generation in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA; however the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts under Generations three year ratable hedging program to replace the PPA will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Both ComEd and PECO mitigate exposure as a result of the regulatory mechanisms that allow them to recover procurement costs from retail customers. New Growth Opportunities Nuclear Uprate Program. Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.3 billion in 2011 dollars, of which approximately $800 million has been spent through December 31, 2011. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are underway at the Limerick, TMI and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants 83 Table of Contents in Illinois. The remaining uprate MWs will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. The ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program. Transmission Development Project. Exelon, Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) and AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEP) are working collaboratively to develop a 420 mile extra high voltage transmission project from the western Ohio border through Indiana to the northern portion of Illinois. Referred to as the Reliability Interregional Transmission Extension (RITE) Line project, the project is expected to strengthen the high voltage transmission system and improve overall system reliability. RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine Illinois) and RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine Indiana) have been formed as project companies to develop and own the project. RITELine Illinois will own the transmission assets located in Illinois and is owned 75% by ComEd and 25% by RITELine Transmission Development Company, LLC (RTD). RITELine Indiana will own the transmission assets located in Indiana and is owned by ETA (37.5%), AEP (37.5%) and RTD (25%). Exelon Transmission Company, LLC and ETA each own 50% of RTD. During December 2011, RITELine Illinois, RITELine Indiana and RTD received capital contributions of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million respectively. Funding was provided to each company based upon the aforementioned ownership structure. The total cost of the RITE Line project is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with the Illinois portion of the line expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion. The ultimate cost of the line will depend on a number of factors, including RTO requirements, state siting requirements, routing of the line, and equipment and commodity costs. The project will be built in stages over three to four years, likely between 2015 and 2018, and is subject to FERC, PJM and state approvals. Significant funding for this project is not expected to occur until 2014, with most of the funding expected in 2015 2017. On July 18, 2011, RITELine Illinois and RITELine Indiana filed at FERC for incentive rates and a formula rate for the RITE Line project. On October 14, 2011, FERC issued an order on the incentive and formula rate filing. The order grants a base rate of return on common equity of 9.93%, plus a 50 basis point adder for the project being in a RTO and a 100 basis point adder for the risks and challenges of the project, resulting in a total rate of return on common equity of 11.43%. The order grants a hypothetical capital structure of 45% debt and 55% equity until any part of the project enters commercial operations. The order also grants 100% recovery for construction work in progress, 100% recovery for abandonment, if the line is abandoned through no fault of the RITELine developers, and the ability to treat pre construction costs as a regulatory asset. All incentives, including the abandonment incentive, are contingent on inclusion of the project in the PJM RTEP. The RITELine companies filed for rehearing on several rate of return on common equity issues and argued that the right to collect abandoned costs should not be subject to the project being included in the RTEP. The RITELine companies also made a compliance filing as called for in the October 14, 2011 Order. Utility Infrastructure. During the fourth quarter of 2011, EIMA was enacted in Illinois, which provides for ComEd to invest an additional $2.6 billion over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established distribution formula rate tariff. 84 Table of Contents In 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, representing an investment of up to a total of $650 million, including its $200 million SGIG, on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. See the Regulatory and Legislative Matters section below and Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the utility infrastructure projects. Liquidity and Cost Management Pension Plan Funding. In January 2011, Exelon contributed $2.1 billion to its pension plans which, along with other factors, increased the funded status of the Exelon pension plans to 83% at December 31, 2011 from 71% at December 31, 2010. This contribution creates flexibility around the timing of future expected minimum contributions, decreases future pension costs, and allows Exelon to further pursue its liability hedge strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. Financing Activities. On January 18, 2011, ComEd issued $600 million of 1.625% First Mortgage Bonds due January 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the bonds were used as an interim source of liquidity for the January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans in which ComEd participates. ComEd anticipates receiving tax refunds as a result of both the pension contribution and the Tax Relief Act of 2010 allowing for 100% bonus depreciation deductions in 2011 and 2012. As a result, the immediate use of the net proceeds to fund the planned contribution will allow those future cash receipts to be available to fund capital investment and for general corporate purposes. On September 7, 2011, ComEd issued $250 million of 1.95% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2016 and $350 million of 3.40% First Mortgage Bonds due September 1, 2021. The majority of the net proceeds of the bonds was used to refinance $191 million of ComEds variable rate tax exempt bonds on October 12, 2011 and $345 million of ComEds 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds due December 15, 2011. The remainder of the net proceeds were used to fund other general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. On March 23, 2011, Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO replaced their unsecured revolving credit facilities with new facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $500 million, $5.3 billion and $600 million, respectively. Although the covenants are largely the same as the prior facilities, the new facilities have higher borrowing costs, reflecting current market pricing. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding those costs. ComEds $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expires on March 25, 2013 unless extended in accordance with terms. ComEd plans to renew or replace the credit facility in 2012. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facility terms. On October 21, 2011, Generation, ComEd and PECO replaced their expiring minority and community bank credit facility agreements with new minority and community bank credit facility agreements in the amounts of $50 million, $34 million and $34 million, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the credit facilities. Cost Management. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and continues to analyze cost 85 Table of Contents trends to identify future cost savings opportunities and implement more planning and performance measurement tools to allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. Environmental Matters Exelon 2020. In 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan, which details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans, and as further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, its emissions reduction efforts will position Exelon to benefit from the long term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelons operations, cash flows or financial position. Environmental Legislative and Regulatory Developments Exelon supports the promulgation of environmental regulation by the U.S. EPA, including air, water and waste controls for electric generating units. See discussion below for further details. The air and waste regulations will have a disproportionate adverse impact on fossil fuel power plants, requiring significant expenditures of capital and variable operating and maintenance expense, and will likely result in the retirement of older, marginal facilities. Due to its low emission generation portfolio, Generation will not be significantly directly affected by these regulations, representing a competitive advantage for Generation relative to electric generators that are more reliant on fossil fuel plants. Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPAs rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown. Air. Beginning with the CSAPR, the air requirements are expected to be implemented through a series of increasingly stringent regulations relating to conventional air pollutants (e.g., NOx, SO2 and particulate matter) as well as HAPs (e.g., acid gases, mercury and other heavy metals). It is expected that the U.S. EPA will complete a review of NAAQS in the 2012 2013 timeframe for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and lead. This review will likely result in more stringent emissions limits on fossil fuel fired electric generating stations. There is opposition among fossil fuel fuel fired generation owners to the potential stringency and timing of these air regulations, and the House Commerce and Energy Committee and several of its subcommittees have held a number of hearings on these issues. On July 7, 2011, the U.S. EPA published a final rule known as CSAPR. The CSAPR requires 27 states in the eastern half of the United States to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ground level ozone and fine particle pollution in other states. On October 14, 2011, the EPA proposed for public comment certain technical corrections to CSAPR, including correction of data errors in determining generation unit allowances and state allowance budgets. These corrections will increase the number of emission allowances available under the CSAPR. In addition, the proposal defers until 2014 penalties that will involve surrender of additional allowances should states not meet certain levels of emission reductions. This deferral is intended to increase the liquidity of allowances during the initial years of transition from CAIR to CSAPR. Upon preliminary review, it is expected that implementation of the CSAPR will modestly increase power prices over the long term, which would result in a net benefit to Generations results of operations and cash flows. Several entities challenged the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and requested a stay of the rule pending the Courts consideration of the matter on the merits. On December 30, 2011, the Court granted a stay and directed the U.S. EPA to continue the 86 Table of Contents administration of CAIR in the interim. The Court ordered an expedited briefing schedule that requires that final briefs be submitted by March 16, 2012, and scheduled oral argument for April 13, 2012. It is unknown when the Court will issue its decision on the merits. Exelon believes that CSAPR is a valid exercise of the U.S. EPAs authority and discretion under the CAA. Exelon has received permission from the Court to intervene in support of CSAPR and in opposition to the stay. On December 16, 2011, the U.S. EPA signed a final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants and signed revisions to the new source performance standards for electric generating units. The final rule, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics (MATS) rule, requires coal fired electric generation plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases and other metals. To achieve these standards, coal units with no pollution control equipment installed (uncontrolled coal units) will have to make capital investments and incur higher operating expenses. It is expected that owners of smaller, older, uncontrolled coal units will retire the units rather than make these investments. Coal units with existing controls that do not meet the MATS rule may need to upgrade existing controls or add new controls to comply. Exelon, along with the other co owners of Conemaugh Generating Station are moving forward with plans to improve the existing scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) controls to meet the mercury removal requirements of MATS by January 1, 2015. Owners of oil units not currently meeting the proposed emission standards may choose to convert the units to light oils or natural gas, install control technologies, or retire the units. The cumulative impact of these regulations could be to require power plant operators to expend significant capital to install pollution control technologies, including wet flue gas desulfurization technology for SO2 and acid gases, and selective catalytic reduction technology for NOx. In the absence of Federal legislation, the U.S. EPA is also moving forward with the regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including permitting requirements under the PSD and Title V operating permit sections of the Clean Air Act for new and modified stationary sources that became effective on January 2, 2011. Exelon supports comprehensive climate change legislation by the U.S Congress, including a mandatory, economy wide cap and trade program for GHG emissions that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce national GHG emissions. Several bills containing provisions for legislation of GHG emissions were introduced in Congress from January 2009 through January 2011, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Water. Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA in 2004 applicable to large electric generating stations were withdrawn in 2007 following a decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals that invalidated many of the rules significant provisions and remanded the rule to the EPA for further consideration and revision. On March 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule, and is required under a Settlement Agreement to issue a final rule by July 27, 2012. The proposed rule does not require closed cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available, and also provides some flexibility in the use of cost benefit considerations and site specific factors. The proposed rule affords the state permitting agency wide discretion to determine the best technology available, which, depending on the site characteristics, could include closed cycle cooling, advanced screen technology at the intake, or retention of the current technology. It is unknown at this time whether the final regulations or permit will require closed cycle cooling at Salem. In addition, the economic viability of Generations other power generation facilities without closed cycle cooling water systems will be called into question by any requirement to construct cooling 87 Table of Contents towers. Should the final rule not require the installation of cooling towers, and retain the flexibility afforded the state permitting agencies in applying a cost benefit test and to consider site specific factors, the impact of the rule would be minimized even though the costs of compliance could be material to Generation. Waste. Under proposed U.S. EPA rules issued on June 21, 2010, coal combustion waste (CCW) would be regulated for the first time under the RCRA. The U.S. EPA is considering several options, including classification of CCW either as a hazardous or non hazardous waste. Under either option, the U.S. EPAs intention is the ultimate elimination of surface impoundments as a waste treatment process. For plants affected by the proposed rules, this would result in significant capital expenditures and variable operating and maintenance expenditures to convert to dry handling and disposal systems and installation of new waste water treatment facilities. Generation anticipates that the only plants in which it has an ownership interest that would be affected by proposed rules would be Keystone and Conemaugh. As a result, Exelon does not currently expect the adoption of the rules as proposed to have a significant impact on its future capital spending requirements and operating costs. The U.S. EPA has not announced a target date for finalization of the CCW rules. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Regulatory and Legislative Matters Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to Update Illinois Ratemaking Process. On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governors veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois General Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation (EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten year period to modernize Illinois electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre established formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEds target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten year life of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund as a result of the combined legislation. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to complete a procurement event for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through May 2017 period In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for the program to terminate prematurely, ending ComEds investment commitment and the performance based distribution formula rates. On November 8, 2011, ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEds rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect within 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012, and the rate adjustments necessary to reconcile 2011 revenues to ComEds actual 2011 costs incurred will take effect in January 2013 after the ICCs review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated regulatory asset of approximately $84 million and an offsetting increase in revenues for the 2011 reconciliation and net decrease in operating and maintenance expense for the deferral of certain storm costs of $29 million and $55 million, respectively. This regulatory asset represents ComEds best estimate of the probable increase in distribution rates expected to be approved by the ICC to provide ComEd recovery of all prudently and reasonably incurred costs in 2011 and an earned rate of return on 88 Table of Contents common equity, as defined in the legislation, for 2011. As the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff progresses through May 2012, ComEd will adjust the estimated regulatory asset recorded as of December 31, 2011, to reflect any revisions made to the proposed formula by the ICC. ComEd currently does not anticipate any such adjustments would be material to its overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The positive impact of the reconciliation mechanism on ComEds 2011 pre tax income was partially offset by the recognition of $15 million contribution to be made to the Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund discussed above. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Appeal of 2007 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On September 30, 2010, the Illinois Appellate Court (Court) issued a decision in the appeals related to the ICCs order in ComEds 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case). That decision ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court that was denied on March 30 2011. The ICC has initiated a proceeding on remand. ComEd expects that the ICC will issue a final order in early 2012. ComEd filed testimony that no refunds should be required in this proceeding and in the event of any refund, the maximum refund should be $30 million. On November 10, 2011, the ALJ issued a proposed order in the remand proceeding agreeing with ComEd that the ICC does not have the legal authority to order a refund; a refund may only be ordered by a court. The ALJ also concluded that, to the extent that a court orders a refund, it should be in the amount of $37 million, including interest. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation, subject to reconciliation when the ICC issues a final order. ComEd does not believe any of its other riders are affected by the Courts ruling. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Courts order. 2010 Illinois Electric Distribution Rate Case. On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEds 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEds rates were last determined. The ICC order, which became effective on June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEds annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd recorded a one time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. The benefit is reflected as an increase to operating revenues and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the 2010 Rate Case. PECOs Default Service Provider Programs. Beginning in January 2011, PECO procured electric supply for default electric service customers through contracts executed through competitive procurements conducted in accordance with its DSP Program approved by the PAPUC in 2009. PECO will conduct three additional competitive procurements under the term of this DSP Program, which expires May 31, 2013. 89 Table of Contents On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one year and two year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECOs support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid October 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PECOs rate case settlements and procurement proceedings. Smart Meter and Smart Grid Investments. In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECOs Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan under which PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years and deploy smart meters to all of its electric customers by 2020. Also in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for a $200 million award for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to a total of $650 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The $200 million SGIG from the DOE is being used to reduce the impact of these investments on PECO ratepayers. Financial Reform Legislation. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis in 2008. Dodd Frank ushers in a new regulatory framework applicable to the over the counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. Since the Fall of 2010, the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Federal Reserve have issued hundreds of proposed rules designed to carry out the mandates contained in Dodd Frank. With respect to non banks such as Exelon, the primary regulator will be the CFTC. Although a few of the rules that will affect Exelon have become final, most will not until, at the earliest, the middle of 2012. The starting point that will determine the ultimate impact on Generation is the definition of swap dealer, as the regulation is aimed at dealers in a manner that is analogous to the CFTCs long standing jurisdiction over the exchanges, such as the NYMEX, which are the clearinghouses for exchange traded futures and options. The CFTC has not yet issued its final rule defining swap dealer. Although the regulation applicable to swap dealers will be far more extensive, end users will also face new requirements that could have a material impact on Generation. Swap dealers will be subject to significant reporting requirements, both in the normal course to the CFTC or its designee swap data repository (SDR), and in real time to the CFTC or an SDR as they enter into transactions. Swap dealers will also be required to demand margin from other swap dealers and also entities that are major swap participants (MSPs) that could be above amounts parties currently request based on current industry norms regarding credit quality. Swap dealers will also have to clear all transactions through CFTC approved exchanges and clearinghouses, except for transactions that they enter into with end users that elect to rely on the exception to the clearing requirement available only to end users whose transactions are hedges of their commercial risk. Swap dealers will have to abide by specific business conduct standards, some of which are similar to fiduciary obligations that entities in other businesses owe to their customers under other laws. Swap dealers will be subject to position limits in a broad range of commodities. Finally, swap dealers will be subject to capitalization requirements that in some cases cannot be met through guarantees from their parent companies. 90 Table of Contents End users will also have reporting obligations, but only with respect to some transactions done with other end users. The clearing requirement will also be applicable to them, except that they will have the option not to clear a transaction that is a qualifying hedge of their commercial risk if they can demonstrate to the CFTC that it is capable of generally meeting its financial obligations associated with uncleared swaps. In addition, end users will be subject to the same position limits as are applicable to swap dealers. Although Exelon and Generation believe a swap dealer designation is unlikely for Generation. Generation estimates that a substantial shift from over the counter sales to exchange cleared sales would to require up to $1 billion of additional collateral postings by Generation based upon market conditions as of December 31, 2011. The level of collateral required would rely upon multiple factors, including but not limited to market conditions, derivative activity levels and Generations credit ratings. Generation has adequate credit facilities and flexibility in its hedging program to accommodate these legislative or market changes. Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking procedures and cannot predict the ultimate outcome that the financial reform legislation will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. New Jersey Capacity Legislation. New Jersey Senate Bill 2381 was enacted into law on January 28, 2011. This legislation established a long term capacity pilot program under which the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) administered an RFP process in the first quarter of 2011 to solicit offers for capacity agreements with mid merit and or base load generation constructed after the effective date of the bill. In the first quarter of 2011, the NJBPU approved the RFP results, which included capacity agreements for a term of up to 15 years for 2,000 MWs. Generation and others filed a complaint in Federal district court requesting that the court declare the statute unconstitutional and that it enjoin implementation of the statute, and have filed a motion for summary judgment in that proceeding asking the court to find the states actions preempted by the Federal Power Act. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff issued its report on New Jersey Capacity, Transmission Planning and Interconnection Issues. The Report makes several recommendations for NJBPU involvement in ongoing and anticipated PJM activities to revise interconnection and transmission planning processes and recommends continued actions to appeal PJMs MOPR. The selected generators from the RFP process are required to bid in and clear the PJM RPM auction, likely causing them to bid in the PJM RPM auction at zero. Under the pilot program, generators are paid based on the RFP contract price; therefore, any difference between the RPM clearing price and the RFP contract price is either ultimately recovered from or refunded to New Jersey electric customers. This state required customer subsidy for generation capacity is expected to artificially suppress capacity prices within the Mid Atlantic region in future auctions, which could adversely affect Generations results of operations and cash flows. Other states could seek to establish similar programs, which could substantially impair Exelons market driven position. PJMs capacity market rules include a Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) that is intended to preclude sellers from artificially suppressing the competitive price signals for generation capacity. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to PJMs MOPR. Tax Matters Accounting for Electric Transmission and Distribution Property Repairs. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 providing a safe harbor method of tax accounting for repair costs associated with electric transmission and distribution property. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the adoption of the safe harbor resulted in a $35 million reduction of income tax expense at PECO, while Generation incurred additional income tax expense in the amount of 91 Table of Contents $28 million due to a decrease in its manufacturers deduction. For Exelon, the adoption had a minimal effect on consolidated earnings. In addition, the adoption of the safe harbor will result in a cash tax benefit at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the electric transmission and distribution property repairs. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Special Transfer Tax Deduction. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of temporary guidance published by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008 for tax year 2008. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations under IRC Section 468A. The final regulations included a transitional relief provision that allowed taxpayers to request permission from the IRS to designate a taxable year, as far back as 2006, during which the special transfer will be deemed to have occurred. Exelon determined, and confirmed with the IRS through the ruling process, that this provision allows a majority of Generations 2008 special transfer deduction to be claimed in the 2006 tax year and the remaining portions claimed ratably in taxable years 2007 and 2008. On February 18, 2011, in order to preserve both the ability to designate the special transfer from 2008 to an earlier taxable year and the ability to complete future additional special transfers, Exelon filed ruling requests with the IRS. During 2011, Exelon received favorable rulings from the IRS on all of its ruling requests. As a result, Exelon recorded an interest and tax benefit of $46 million, net of tax including the impact on the manufacturers deduction, in 2011 related to the special transfers completed in 2008 and 2011. Illinois State Income Tax Legislation. The Taxpayer Accountability and Budget Stabilization Act (SB 2505), enacted into law in Illinois on January 13, 2011, increases the corporate tax rate in Illinois from 7.3% to 9.5% for tax years 2011 2014, provides for a reduction in the rate from 9.5% to 7.75% for tax years 2015 2024 and further reduces the rate from 7.75% to 7.3% for tax years 2025 and thereafter. Pursuant to the rate change, Exelon reevaluated its deferred state income taxes during the first quarter of 2011. Illinois corporate income tax rate changes resulted in a charge to state deferred taxes (net of Federal taxes) during the first quarter of 2011 of $7 million, $11 million and $4 million for Exelon, Generation and ComEd, respectively. Exelons and ComEds charge is net of a regulatory asset recorded of $15 million. In 2011, the income tax rate change increased Exelons Illinois income tax provision (net of federal taxes) by approximately $7 million, of which $12 million and $5 million of additional tax relates to Exelon Corporate and Generation, respectively, and a $10 million benefit for ComEd. The 2011 tax benefit at ComEd reflects the impact of a 2011 tax net operating loss generated primarily by the bonus depreciation deduction allowed under the Tax Relief Act of 2010 and the electric transmission and distribution property repairs discussed in Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Plant Retirements Oyster Creek. On December 9, 2010, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek no later than December 31, 2019, in view of the costs that might have been associated with the installation of closed cycle cooling had operations continued to the end of its current NRC license in 2029. Eddystone and Cromby. In 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit effective May 31, 2011 in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. However, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades would be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those 92 Table of Contents upgrades would be completed in a manner that will permit Generations retirement of two of the units on that date and two of the units subsequent to May 31, 2011. On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. On May 27, 2011, the FERC approved a settlement providing for a reliability must run rate schedule, which defines compensation to be paid to Generation for continuing to operate these units. The monthly fixed cost recovery during the reliability must run period for Eddystone Unit 2 is approximately $6 million. In addition, Generation is recovering variable costs including fuel, emissions costs, chemicals, auxiliary power and for project investment costs during the reliability must run period. Eddystone Unit 2 and Cromby Unit 2 began operating under the reliability must run agreement effective June 1, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its accounting and disclosure governance committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the audit committee of the Exelon board of directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. Generations ARO associated with decommissioning its nuclear units was $3.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses unit by unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning costs, approaches and timing on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of 93 Table of Contents costs 20% higher (high cost scenario) or 15% lower (low cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned alternative decommissioning approaches assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning shortly after the cessation of operation in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) decommissioning. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. License Renewals. Generation assumes a successful 20 year renewal for each of its nuclear generating station licenses, except for Oyster Creek, in determining its nuclear decommissioning ARO. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Oyster Creek. Generation has successfully secured 20 year operating license renewal extensions for ten of its nuclear units (including the two Salem units co owned by Generation, but operated by PSEG), and none of Generations applications for an operating license extension has been denied. Generation is in various stages of the process of pursuing similar extensions on its remaining nine operating nuclear units. Generations assumption regarding license extension for ARO determination purposes is based in part on the good current physical condition and high performance of these nuclear units; the favorable status of the ongoing license renewal proceedings with the NRC, and the successful renewals for ten units to date. Generation estimates that the failure to obtain license renewals at any of these nuclear units (assuming all other assumptions remain constant) would increase its ARO on average approximately $170 million per unit as of December 31, 2011. The size of the increase to the ARO for a particular nuclear unit is dependent upon the current stage in its original license term and its specific decommissioning cost estimates. If Generation does not receive license renewal on a particular unit, the increase to the ARO may be mitigated by Generations ability to delay ultimate decommissioning activities under a SAFSTOR method of decommissioning. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the CARFR could result in significant changes in the ARO. If Generation used a 2010 CARFR instead of the 2011 CARFR in performing its third quarter 2011 ARO update, it would have resulted in a $140 million increase in the ARO. Additionally, if the CARFR used in performing the third quarter 2011 ARO update was increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the ARO would have decreased by $50 million or increased by $20 million, respectively. 94 Table of Contents Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2011 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 410 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 120 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 180 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 340 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2025 $ 150 Extend the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF to 2035 $ 250 Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) ComEd has goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 as part of the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, ComEd is required to perform an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. Under the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment or operating component and is the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units and determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt. In applying the second step (if needed), management would need to estimate the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2011; however, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds like kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions described above could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any 95 Table of Contents combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in the fair value of the reporting unit as of November 1, 2011, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase Accounting (Exelon and Generation) In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, the purchase price of an acquired business is generally allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. Any unallocated purchase price amount is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet if it exceeds the estimated fair value and as a bargain purchase gain on the income statement if it is below the estimated fair value. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions used in valuing Generations acquisitions of Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One on September 28, 2011, Wolf Hollow, LLC on August 24, 2011 and Exelon Wind on December 10, 2010 include: projected future cash flows (including timing) which are estimated primarily utilizing the income approach; discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; and future market prices. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets acquired and the duration of the liabilities assumed. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity provided. For ComEd, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. Events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected and there will usually be differences between prospective financial information and actual results, and those differences may be material. Additionally, some assumptions or projections 96 Table of Contents inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur during the forecast period. These could include, among others, major changes in the economic environment; significant increases or decreases in current mortgage interest rates and or terms or availability of financing altogether; property assessment; and or major revisions in current state and or Federal tax or regulatory laws. Therefore, the actual results achieved during the projected holding period and investor requirements relative to anticipated annual returns and overall yields could vary from the projection. Accordingly, to the extent that any of the information used in the fair value analysis requires adjustment, the resulting fair market value would be different. As such, the determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. An impairment determination would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Exelon holds certain investments in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. Exelon determines the investment in these plants by incorporating an estimate of the residual values of the leased assets; which equates to the fixed purchase option prices established at the inception of the leases. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these plants to determine if the current estimate of their residual value is lower than the one originally established. In determining the current estimate of the residual value the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. If the current estimate of the residual value is lower than the residual value established at the inception of the lease and the decline is considered to be other than temporary, a loss will be recognized with a corresponding reduction to the carrying amount of the investment. To date, no such losses have been recognized. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment of the Registrants. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding Oyster Creek. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating and renewable facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates 97 Table of Contents resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2010. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In April 2010, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2011. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO and BSC employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under Exelons defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. When developing the required assumptions, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit obligations and costs is impacted by several assumptions including the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, Exelons expected level of contributions to the plans, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and are ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets include equity securities, including U.S. and international securities, and fixed income securities, as well as certain alternative investment classes such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification under the fair value hierarchy in accordance with authoritative guidance. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.00%, 8.50% and 8.50% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average expected return on assets assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.08%, 7.83% and 8.10% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The current year EROA is based on asset allocations from the prior year end. In 2010, Exelon began implementation of a liability driven investment strategy in order to reduce the volatility of its pension assets relative to its pension liabilities. As a result of this modification, over time, Exelon determined 98 Table of Contents that it will decrease equity investments and increase investments in fixed income securities and alternative investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio of liability hedging and return generating assets. The change in the overall investment strategy would tend to lower the expected rate of return on plan assets in future years as compared to the previous strategy. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons asset allocations. Exelon used an EROA of 7.50% and 6.68% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the majority of pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets and certain pension plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have an impact on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 9.8% and 2.0%, respectively, compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.00% and 7.08%, respectively. Discount Rate. The discount rates used to determine the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 were 4.74% and 4.80%, respectively, and the discount rates for determining the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 were 5.26% and 5.30%, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the discount rates were determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to determine the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end are used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use discount rates of 4.74% and 4.80% to estimate its 2012 pension and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Health Care Reform Legislation. In March 2010, the Health Care Reform Acts were signed into law, which contain a number of provisions that impact retiree health care plans provided by employers. One such provision reduces the deductibility, for Federal income tax purposes, of retiree health care costs to the extent an employers postretirement health care plan receives Federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Although this change did not take effect immediately, the Registrants were required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Additionally, as a result of this deductibility change for employers and other Health Care Reform provisions that impact the federal prescription drug subsidy options provided to employers, Exelon intends to make a change in the manner in which it receives prescription drug subsidies in 2013. The Health Care Reform Acts include a provision that imposes an excise tax on certain high cost plans beginning in 2018, whereby premiums paid over a prescribed threshold will be taxed at a 40% rate. Although the excise tax does not go into effect until 2018, accounting guidance requires Exelon to 99 Table of Contents incorporate the estimated impact of the excise tax in its annual actuarial valuation. The application of the legislation is still unclear and Exelon continues to monitor the Department of Labor and IRS for additional guidance. Certain key assumptions are required to estimate the impact of the excise tax on Exelons other postretirement obligation, including projected inflation rates (based on the CPI) and whether pre and post 65 retiree populations can be aggregated in determining the premium values of health care benefits. Exelon reflected its best estimate of the expected impact in its annual actuarial valuation. Health Care Cost Trend Rate. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. Accounting guidance requires that annual health care cost estimates be developed using past and present health care cost trends (both for Exelon and across the broader economy), as well as expectations of health care cost escalation, changes in health care utilization and delivery patterns, technological advances and changes in the health status of plan participants. Therefore, the trend rate assumption is subject to significant uncertainty, particularly when considering potential impacts of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. Exelon assumed an initial health care cost trend rate of 6.50% at December 31, 2011, decreasing to an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5.00% in 2017. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension Other PostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2011 cost: Discount rate (a) 0.5% $ (54 ) $ (23 ) $ (77 ) (0.5%) 54 30 84 EROA 0.5% (59 ) (8 ) (67 ) (0.5%) 59 8 67 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 75 75 (1.00%) N/A (57 ) (57 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 6 6 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2011: Discount rate (a) 0.5% (819 ) (252 ) (1,071 ) (0.5%) 873 269 1,142 Health care cost trend rate 1.00% N/A 686 686 (1.00%) N/A (521 ) (521 ) Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2015 to 2017 N/A 61 61 (a) In general, the discount rate will have a larger impact on the pension and other postretirement benefit cost and obligation as the rate moves closer to 0%. Therefore, the discount rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated for larger increases or decreases in the discount rate. Additionally, Exelon implemented a liability driven investment strategy for a portion of its pension asset portfolio in 2010. The sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that changes in discount rates may have on pension asset returns. 100 Table of Contents Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.1 years, 12.4 years and 12.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized estimated prior service costs over participants average remaining service period to benefit eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to benefit eligibility age was 6.6 years, 6.8 years and 6.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 8.7 years, 9.0 years and 9.2 years for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of cost based rate regulation in their financial statements. This guidance is applicable to entities with regulated operations that meet the following criteria: (1) rates are established or approved by a third party regulator; (2) rates are designed to recover the entities cost of providing services or products; and (3) a reasonable expectation that rates are set at levels that will recover the entities costs from customers. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent (1) the excess recovery of costs or accrued credits that have been deferred because it is probable such amounts will be returned to customers through future regulated rates; or (2) billings in advance of expenditures for approved regulatory programs. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria to apply the authoritative guidance. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO would be required to eliminate any associated regulatory assets and liabilities and the impact would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and could be material. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory matters, including the regulatory assets and liabilities tables of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement at each balance sheet date and when regulatory events occur. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory and political environments, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, and recent rate orders. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Refer to the revenue recognition discussion below for additional information on the annual revenue reconciliations associated with ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that may ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of applicable regulatory or judicial processes. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies in ComEds and PECOs jurisdictions, known circumstances specific to a particular matter and hearings held with the applicable regulatory 101 Table of Contents body. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual regulatory outcomes, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013 and floating to fixed energy swaps with several unaffiliated suppliers that extend into 2032. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECO has also entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium and contracts to purchase and sell RECs do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and neither the uranium nor the REC markets are sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium or REC markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts or REC sale and purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered into for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. 102 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of ComEds energy procurement process, PECOs full requirement contracts and block contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and most of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and financial rather than physical contract settlements (book outs). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and whether the forecasted future transactions remain probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 103 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are traded predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, Black model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, Black model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the Black model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The fair value of the swap agreements is calculated by discounting the future net cash flows to the present value based on the terms and conditions of the agreements and the forward interest rate curves. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach including a more likely than not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Loss Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for loss contingencies and the actual results that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Annual studies are conducted to determine the future remediation requirements and estimates are adjusted accordingly. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, workers compensation, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a 105 Table of Contents monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is affected by the following factors: daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, customer usage by class, losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the measurement of unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. ComEds distribution formula rate tariff, pursuant to EIMA, and ComEds FERC approved transmission formula rate tariff provide for annual reconciliations to the distribution and transmission revenue requirements, respectively. As of the balance sheet dates, ComEd has recorded its best estimates of the distribution and transmission revenue impacts resulting from changes in rates that ComEd believes are probable of approval by the ICC and FERC in accordance with the formula rate mechanisms. Estimates are based upon actual costs incurred and investments in rate base for the period and the rates of return on common equity and associated regulatory capital structure allowed under the applicable tariff. Both estimated reconciliations can be impacted by, among other things, variances in costs incurred and investments made and actions by regulators or courts. The structure of ComEds distribution formula rate tariff could change once the ICC proceeding to review ComEds initially filed formula rate tariff is completed in May 2012. ComEd does not anticipate that any of the adjustments to the reconciliations discussed above would be material to ComEds overall results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of losses on the accounts receivable balances. For Generation, the allowance is based on accounts receivable agings, historical experience and other currently available information. ComEd and PECO estimate the allowance for uncollectible accounts on customer receivables by applying internally developed loss rates to the outstanding receivable balance by risk segment. Risk segments represent a group of customers with similar credit quality indicators that are computed based on various attributes, including delinquency of their balances and payment history. Loss rates applied to the accounts receivable balances are based on historical average charge offs as a percentage of accounts receivable in each risk segment. ComEd and PECO customers accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. ComEd and PECO customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory requirements. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in volume, prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounts receivable. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Generation $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) ComEd 416 337 79 374 (37 ) PECO 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Other (a) (81 ) (70 ) (11 ) (142 ) 72 Total $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 10,308 $ 10,025 $ 283 $ 9,703 $ 322 Purchased power and fuel expense 3,450 3,463 13 2,932 (531 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,858 6,562 296 6,771 (209 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 3,148 2,812 (336 ) 2,938 126 Depreciation and amortization 570 474 (96 ) 333 (141 ) Taxes other than income 264 230 (34 ) 205 (25 ) Total other operating expenses 3,982 3,516 (466 ) 3,476 (40 ) Operating income 2,876 3,046 (170 ) 3,295 (249 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (170 ) (153 ) (17 ) (113 ) (40 ) Loss in equity method investments (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) 3 Other, net 122 257 (135 ) 376 (119 ) Total other income and deductions (49 ) 104 (153 ) 260 (156 ) Income before income taxes 2,827 3,150 (323 ) 3,555 (405 ) Income taxes 1,056 1,178 122 1,433 255 Net income $ 1,771 $ 1,972 $ (201 ) $ 2,122 $ (150 ) (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Generations net income decreased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to mark to market losses on economic hedging activities and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generations 2011 results were further affected by increased nuclear fuel costs, less favorable NDT fund performance in 2011 and higher nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the increased number of refueling 107 Table of Contents outage days in 2011. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by higher revenues due to the expiration of the PECO PPA on December 31, 2010 and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South and West region. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were lower due to decreased revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense due to lower margins realized on market and affiliate power sales primarily due to unfavorable market conditions, lower mark to market gains on economic hedging activities and increased nuclear fuel costs; partially offset by higher capacity revenues, including RPM, and favorable settlements on the ComEd swap. Generations 2010 results compared to 2009 were further affected by lower operating and maintenance expenses. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to the impact of a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations recorded in 2009. Lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher expense due to the absence of ARO reductions that occurred in 2009; higher wages and benefits costs; and higher nuclear refueling outage costs in 2010. Additionally, Generations earnings decreased due to lower unrealized gains in its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to 2009. Revenue Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions representing the different geographical areas in which Generations power marketing activities are conducted. Mid Atlantic includes Generations operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland; Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota; and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho and Oregon. Generation evaluates the operating performance of its power marketing activities using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generations operating revenues include all sales to third parties and affiliated sales to ComEd and PECO. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement and supply of electricity including capacity, energy and ancillary services. Fuel expense includes the fuel costs for internally generated energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generations retail gas, proprietary trading, compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule, other revenues and mark to market activities as well as amounts paid related to the Illinois Settlement Legislation are not allocated to a region. For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense by region were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 3,359 $ 2,512 $ 847 33.7 % $ 2,578 $ (66 ) (2.6 )% Midwest (b) 3,547 4,081 (534 ) (13.1 )% 4,148 (67 ) (1.6 )% South and West 70 (131 ) 201 153.4 % (117 ) (14 ) (12.0 )% Total electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,976 $ 6,462 $ 514 8.0 % $ 6,609 $ (147 ) (2.2 )% Trading portfolio 24 27 (3 ) (11.1 )% 1 26 n.m. Mark to market gains (losses) (288 ) 86 (374 ) n.m. 181 (95 ) (52.5 )% Other (c)(d) 146 (13 ) 159 n.m. (20 ) 7 35.0 % Total revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense $ 6,858 $ 6,562 $ 296 4.5 % $ 6,771 $ (209 ) (3.1 )% 108 Table of Contents (a) Included in the Mid Atlantic are the results of generation in New England. (b) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (c) Includes retail gas activities and other operating revenues, which primarily include fuel sales and compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (d) In 2010, Other also includes a $57 million impairment charge for certain emission allowances further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generations supply sources by region are summarized below: Supply source (GWh) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) Mid Atlantic 47,287 47,517 (230 ) (0.5 )% 47,866 (349 ) (0.7 )% Midwest 92,010 92,493 (483 ) (0.5 )% 91,804 689 0.8 % Fossil and renewables Mid Atlantic (a)(b) 7,580 9,436 (1,856 ) (19.7 )% 8,938 498 5.6 % Midwest (c) 596 68 528 n.m. 4 64 n.m. South and West (c) 3,462 1,213 2,249 185.4 % 1,247 (34 ) (2.7 )% Purchased power (d) Mid Atlantic 2,898 1,918 980 51.1 % 1,747 171 9.8 % Midwest 5,970 7,032 (1,062 ) (15.1 )% 7,738 (706 ) (9.1 )% South and West 10,040 12,112 (2,072 ) (17.1 )% 13,721 (1,609 ) (11.7 )% Total supply by region Mid Atlantic 57,765 58,871 (1,106 ) (1.9 )% 58,551 320 0.5 % Midwest 98,576 99,593 (1,017 ) (1.0 )% 99,546 47 0.0 % South and West 13,502 13,325 177 1.3 % 14,968 (1,643 ) (11.0 )% Total supply 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its jointly owned generating plants. (b) Includes generation in New England and excludes revenue under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes generation from Exelon Wind, acquired in December 2010, of 570 GWh and 41 GWh in the Midwest and 1,432 GWh and 84 GWh in the South and West for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Includes non PPA purchases of 3,815 GWh, 4,681 GWh and 3,535 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Generations sales are summarized below: Sales (GWh) (a) 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Variance % Change Variance % Change ComEd (b) 5,323 (5,323 ) (100.0 )% 16,830 (11,507 ) (68.4 )% PECO (c) 42,003 (42,003 ) (100.0 )% 39,897 2,106 5.3 % Market and retail (d) 169,843 124,463 45,380 36.5 % 116,338 8,125 7.0 % Total electric sales 169,843 171,789 (1,946 ) (1.1 )% 173,065 (1,276 ) (0.7 )% (a) Excludes physical trading volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (b) Represents sales under the 2006 ComEd auction. (c) Represents sales under the full requirements PPA, which expired on December 31, 2010. (d) Includes sales under the ComEd RFP, settlements under the ComEd swap and sales to PECO through the competitive procurement process. 109 Table of Contents The following table presents electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh of electricity sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. $/MWh 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 % Change % Change Mid Atlantic (a)(b) $ 58.15 $ 42.67 36.3 % $ 44.03 (3.1 )% Midwest (a)(c) $ 35.98 $ 40.98 (12.2 )% $ 41.67 (1.7 )% South and West $ 5.18 $ (9.83 ) 152.7 % $ (7.82 ) (25.7 )% Electric revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh (d) $ 41.07 $ 37.62 9.2 % $ 38.20 (1.5 )% (a) Results of transactions with PECO and ComEd are included in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions, respectively. (b) Includes sales to PECO of $508 million (7,041 GWh), $2,091 million (42,003 GWh) and $2,016 million (39,897 GWh) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excludes compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule. (c) Includes sales to ComEd of $179 million (4,731 GWh), $288 million (8,218 GWh) and $88 million (1,916 GWh) and settlements of the ComEd swap of $474 million, $385 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (d) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense per MWh represents the average margin per MWh of electricity sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and excludes the mark to market impact of Generations economic hedging activities, trading portfolio and other. Mid Atlantic Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $847 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to increased margins on the volumes previously sold under Generations PPA with PECO, which expired on December 31, 2010, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $66 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Mid Atlantic was primarily due to unfavorable pricing relating to Generations PPA with PECO and increased fuel expense. Additionally, increased sales to PECO resulted in lower volumes available for market sales. Midwest Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $534 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins in 2011 for the volumes previously sold by Generation under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and increased nuclear fuel costs. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity revenues, favorable settlements under the ComEd swap and the additional revenue following the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $67 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the Midwest was primarily due to decreased realized margins on Generations market sales in 2010 for the volumes previously sold under the 2006 ComEd auction contracts and for sales of the additional nuclear volumes at realized lower prices as a result of unfavorable market conditions and increases in the price of nuclear fuel. These decreases were partially offset by increased payments to Generation under PJMs RPM auction and an increase in settlements on the ComEd swap as a result of declining market prices in 2010. 110 Table of Contents South and West In the South and West, Generation is party to certain long term purchase power agreements that have fixed capacity payments based on unit availability. The extent to which these fixed payments are recovered by Generation is dependent on market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The $201 million increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily driven by the performance of Generations generating units during extreme weather events that occurred in Texas in February and August 2011, in addition to the impact of additional revenue from the acquisition of Exelon Wind in December 2010 and higher realized margins due to overall favorable market conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The $14 million decrease in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense in the South and West was primarily due to lower realized margins due to unfavorable market conditions and outage activity, partially offset by capacity revenues received on Generations long term sale agreements that began in 2010. Mark to market Gains and Losses Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $214 million in 2011, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to losses of $3 million in 2010. Mark to market losses on fuel hedging activities were $74 million in 2011 compared to gains of $89 million in 2010. In general, the mark to market losses incurred in 2011 represent the realization of in the money hedge transactions during the period. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Mark to market losses on power hedging activities were $3 million in 2010, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $94 million in 2009. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $89 million in 2010 compared to gains of $87 million in 2009. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Other Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is primarily due to the impacts of the impairment charge of certain emission allowances recognized in 2010, additional other wholesale fuel sales in 2011 as well as compensation under the reliability must run rate schedule further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other is due to the impacts of $77 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the Illinois Settlement Legislation further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase in other revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by the $57 million impairment charge of certain emission allowances in 2010 further described in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and $13 million in lower fuel sales. 111 Table of Contents Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor and Production Costs The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2011, as compared to 2010 and 2009, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2011 2010 2009 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.3 % 93.9 % 93.6 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 18.86 $ 17.31 $ 16.07 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2011 and 2010, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 283 and 261, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, increased primarily due to a lower number of outage days. For 2010 and 2009, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 261 and 263, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 57 and 78, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs and higher plant operating and maintenance costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2010 as compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 113 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (a) 74 Exelon Wind (b) 39 Asset retirement obligation increase (c) 28 2010 nuclear insurance credit (d) 20 Corporate allocations (e) 19 Acquisition costs (f) 14 Other (g) 29 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 336 (a) Reflects the impact of increased planned refueling outages during 2011. (b) Includes costs of $30 million in 2011 associated with labor, other benefits, contracting and materials at Exelon Wind. (c) Reflects an increase in Generations decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the ARO update in 2011. 112 Table of Contents (d) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2011. (e) Primarily reflects increased lobbying expenses related to EPA and competitive market matters. (f) Reflects the increase in certain costs associated with the acquisitions of Exelon Wind, Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and the proposed acquisition of Constellation incurred in 2011. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (g) Includes additional environmental remediation costs recorded during 2011. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ (223 ) Announced plant shutdowns (b) (21 ) Nuclear insurance credits (c) (20 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (11 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 51 Wages and other benefits 33 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 21 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant 20 Exelon Wind acquisition (e) 11 Other 13 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (126 ) (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Primarily reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (c) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2010. No premiums were returned for 2009. (d) Primarily reflects the reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009. (e) See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of higher plant balances due to the acquisition of Exelon Wind, capital additions and other upgrades to existing facilities. Higher plant balances resulted in an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $61 million. The remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the impact of increases in asset retirement costs (ARC) for Generations nuclear generating facilities. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in a depreciation expense increase of $48 million. Additionally, Generation completed a depreciation rate study during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a change in depreciation rates. The change in depreciation rates resulted in an increase of $21 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased gross receipt taxes related to retail sales in the Mid Atlantic region. These gross receipt taxes are recovered in revenue, and as a result, have no impact to Generations results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased property taxes related to Generations nuclear fuel generating facilities. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $27 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to debt issuances in 2010 and 2009, further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt resulted in higher interest expense of approximately $42 million. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses related to the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units compared to net unrealized gains in 2010, as described in the table below. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $18 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2011 compared to the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense in 2010. These decreases are partially offset by the $32 million impact of one time interest income from the NDT fund special transfer tax deduction recognized in 2011 and a $36 million bargain purchase gain associated with the August 2011 acquisition of Wolf Hollow. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the decrease reflects the contractual elimination of $96 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2010 compared to the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense in 2009. These decreases are partially offset by the impacts of $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in 2009 further described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds $ (4 ) $ 104 $ 227 Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds $ (10 ) $ 2 $ (19 ) Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 37.4%, 37.4% and 40.3%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 114 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 $ (148 ) $ 5,774 $ 430 Purchased power expense 3,035 3,307 272 3,065 (242 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 3,021 2,897 124 2,709 188 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,086 975 (111 ) 1,028 53 Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 115 94 (21 ) 63 (31 ) Depreciation and amortization 542 516 (26 ) 494 (22 ) Taxes other than income 296 256 (40 ) 281 25 Total other operating expenses 2,039 1,841 (198 ) 1,866 25 Operating income 982 1,056 (74 ) 843 213 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (345 ) (386 ) 41 (319 ) (67 ) Other, net 29 24 5 79 (55 ) Total other income and deductions (316 ) (362 ) 46 (240 ) (122 ) Income before income taxes 666 694 (28 ) 603 91 Income taxes 250 357 107 229 (128 ) Net income $ 416 $ 337 $ 79 $ 374 $ (37 ) (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in ComEds net income was primarily due to higher electric distribution rates, effective June 1, 2011, pursuant to the ICC order in the 2010 Rate Case, and increased revenues resulting from the annual reconciliation of ComEds distribution revenue requirement pursuant to EIMA, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net income was also higher due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. The remeasurement resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010. These increases to net income were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and taxes other than income. The increase in operating and maintenance expense reflects the benefit recorded in 2010 resulting from the ICCs approval of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, a reduction in ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and higher labor and contracting expenses incurred in 2011. These increases to operating and maintenance expense were partially offset by one time net benefits recognized pursuant to the ICC order in ComEds 2010 rate case. 115 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in ComEds net income was primarily due to the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2009 and 2010 related to the 1999 sale of ComEds fossil generating assets. These remeasurements resulted in increased interest expense and income tax expense recorded in 2010, and increased interest income recorded in 2009. Net income was also reduced by higher incremental storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense reflecting higher plant balances, and the impact of Federal health care legislation signed into law in March 2010. These reductions to net income were partially offset by higher revenue net of purchased power expense primarily due to favorable weather conditions, a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense, and the accrual of estimated future refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The reduction in operating and maintenance expenses reflects the February 2010 approval by the ICC of ComEds uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism, the reduction of ComEds ARO reserve in 2010, and a charge in 2009 for severance expense incurred as a cost to achieve savings under Exelons 2009 company wide cost savings initiative. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation supplier does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. The number of retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers was 380,300 and 66,200 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 10% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The significant increase in 2011 is primarily associated with the residential customer class. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 56% and 52% of ComEds retail kWh sales at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pricing (2010 Rate Case) $ 89 Revenues subject to refund, net 31 Distribution formula rate reconciliation 29 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 21 Transmission 18 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 2 Volume delivery (10 ) Weather delivery (21 ) Uncollectible accounts recovery, net (33 ) Other (2 ) Total increase $ 124 116 Table of Contents Pricing (2010 Rate Case) The ICC issued an order in the 2010 Rate Case approving an increase in ComEds annual electric distribution revenue requirement. The order became effective June 1, 2011, resulting in higher revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues subject to refund, net ComEd records revenues subject to refund based upon its best estimate of customer collections that may be required to be refunded. As a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court (Court) decision in the 2007 Rate Case that ruled against ComEd on the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of system modernization costs via Rider SMP, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund prospectively. In addition, ComEd began recording revenue subject to refund on June 1, 2010 relating to the recovery of Cash Working Capital (CWC) through its energy procurement rider. Based on the 2010 Rate Case order as well as ongoing proceedings associated with the Court order, ComEd has updated its revenue subject to refund reserve. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd has recorded its best estimate of any refund obligations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution formula rate reconciliation EIMA provides for a performance based formula rate tariff. The legislation provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect to the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred in a given year. ComEd will make its initial reconciliation filing in May 2012 and the adjusted rates will take effect in January 2013 after ICC review. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd recorded an estimated reconciliation of approximately $29 million. This does not include the reconciliation of significant storm costs discussed under operating and maintenance expense below. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Financial Statements for additional information. Transmission ComEds transmission rates are established based on a FERC approved formula. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update, filed in May 2011, reflects actual 2010 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2011 capital additions. Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense vary from year to year based upon fluctuations in the underlying costs and investments being recovered. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $1 million and $3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2011 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2011 compared to 2010. 117 Table of Contents Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense decreased as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflecting decreased average usage per residential and small commercial and industrial customer for 2011, compared to 2010. Weather delivery The increase in revenues net of purchased power expense in 2011 compared to 2010 were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions, despite setting a new record for highest daily peak load of 23,753 MWs on July 20, 2011. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in ComEds service territory with cooling degree days generally having a more significant impact to ComEd, particularly during summer months. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 6,134 5,991 6,362 2.4 % (3.6) % Cooling Degree Days 1,036 1,181 855 (12.3) % 21.2 % Uncollectible accounts recovery, net Represents recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. Refer to uncollectible accounts expense discussion below for further information. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Weather delivery $ 89 Uncollectible accounts recovery 59 Regulatory required programs cost recovery 31 Rate relief programs 7 2007 City of Chicago settlement 5 Volume delivery (3 ) Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) (17 ) Other 17 Total increase $ 188 118 Table of Contents Weather delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to favorable weather conditions. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in ComEds service territory consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 5,991 6,429 6,362 (6.8) % (5.8) % Cooling Degree Days 1,181 589 855 100.5 % 38.1 % Uncollectible accounts recovery In 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois providing public utility companies with the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism, starting with 2008 and prospectively. Recovery began in April 2010. During 2010, ComEd recognized recovery of $59 million associated with this rider mechanism. This amount was offset by an equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets reflected in operating and maintenance expense. Regulatory required programs cost recovery Revenues related to regulatory required programs are the recoveries from customers of costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs during the period presented. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rate relief programs ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2010 compared to 2009. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $3 million and $8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments were recorded as a reduction to revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2010 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2010 compared to 2009. Volume delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense, exclusive of the effects of weather, decreased primarily as a result of lower delivery volume to residential customers in 2010 as compared to 2009. Revenues subject to refund (2007 Rate Case) ComEd recorded an estimated refund obligation of $17 million in 2010 as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling regarding the treatment of post test year accumulated depreciation in the 2007 Rate Case. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 119 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, rental revenue, franchise fees, transmission revenues and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (b) $ 60 Provision 9 Recovery, net (c) (42 ) 27 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 72 Storm related costs 70 Accrued contribution to Science and Technology Innovation Trust(d) 15 Corporate allocations 8 Deferral of storm costs pursuant to EIMA, net of amortization (d) (55 ) Discrete impacts from 2010 Rate Case order (e) (32 ) Other 6 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 111 (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation in the first quarter of 2010. (c) Represents impacts on recoveries under ComEds uncollectible accounts tariff. (d) Under EIMA, ComEd may recover costs associated with certain one time events, such as large storms, over a five year period. During the fourth quarter, ComEd recorded a net reduction in operating and maintenance expense for costs related to three significant 2011 storms. In addition, ComEd recorded an accrual in 2011, pursuant to EIMA, for a contribution to a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund that will be used to fund energy innovation. (e) In May 2011, as a result of the 2010 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded one time net benefits to reestablish previously expensed plant balances and to recover previously incurred costs related to Exelons 2009 restructuring plan. 120 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Uncollectible accounts expense (a): Amortization (b) $ 59 One time impact of 2010 ICC Order (c) (60 ) Provision (d) (37 ) (Under) over recovered (3 ) (41 ) Storm related costs 20 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 7 Injuries and damages 6 Rider SMP regulatory asset write off (e) 4 Corporate allocations (8 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (9 ) ARO adjustment (10 ) 2009 restructuring plan severance charges (19 ) Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (53 ) (a) On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order adopting ComEds proposed tariffs filed in accordance with Illinois legislation providing public utilities the ability to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the utilitys annual uncollectible accounts expense and amounts collected in rates annually through a rider mechanism starting with 2008 and prospectively. (b) In 2010, ComEd recovered $59 million of operating revenues through its uncollectible accounts expense rider mechanism. An equal amount of amortization of regulatory assets was recorded in operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As a result of the February 2010 ICC order, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $70 million and an offsetting reduction in operating and maintenance expense for the cumulative under collections in 2008 and 2009. In addition, ComEd recorded a one time contribution of $10 million associated with this legislation. (d) Uncollectible accounts expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of ComEds increased collection activities. (e) In 2010, ComEd recorded a write off to operation and maintenance expense of the regulatory asset associated with the AMI pilot program of $4 million as a result of the September 30, 2010 Illinois Appellate Court ruling. In addition, ComEd recorded $5 million of operation and maintenance for regulatory required programs, and $2 million of depreciation expense associated with the AMI pilot program. In 2010, ComEd recorded $11 million of operating revenues associated with the AMI pilot program recovered under Rider SMP. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois Appellate Court ruling. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009, consisted of the following: Increase2011 vs. 2010 Increase2010 vs. 2009 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances (a) $ 20 $ 16 Other 6 6 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 26 $ 22 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to higher plant balances year over year. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. Taxes other than income taxes increased primarily due to the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Previously, ComEd had recorded refunds of the Illinois utility distribution tax when received. Due to sufficient, reliable evidence, ComEd began in June 2010 recording an estimated receivable associated with anticipated Illinois utility distribution tax refunds prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. Taxes other than income taxes decreased, reflecting the accrual of estimated future refunds of Illinois utility distribution tax recorded in 2010 relating to prior tax years. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ (63 ) $ 61 Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) 20 5 Other 2 1 (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (41 ) $ 67 (a) During 2010, ComEd recorded $59 million of interest expense associated with the remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions related to the 1999 sale of Fossil Generating Assets. (b) Interest expense on debt increased due to higher outstanding long term debt balances year over year. Other, Net The changes in other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (a) $ 8 $ (59 ) Other than temporary impairment of investments 7 Other (3 ) (3 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 5 $ (55 ) 122 Table of Contents (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets. The majority of the benefit was recorded to Other, net and $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 37.5%, 51.4% and 38.0%, respectively. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 Weather Normal%Change 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 28,273 29,171 (3.1 )% (1.3 )% 26,621 9.6 % (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 32,281 32,904 (1.9 )% (0.8 )% 32,234 2.1 % (0.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 27,732 27,717 0.1 % 0.6 % 26,668 3.9 % 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,235 1,273 (3.0 )% (1.2 )% 1,237 2.9 % 2.4 % Total Retail 89,521 91,065 (1.7 )% (0.5 )% 86,760 5.0 % 0.2 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 3,448,481 3,438,677 3,425,570 Small commercial & industrial 365,824 363,393 360,779 Large commercial & industrial 2,032 2,005 1,985 Public authorities & electric railroads 4,797 5,078 5,008 Total 3,821,134 3,809,153 3,793,342 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 %Change2011 vs.2010 2009 %Change2010 vs.2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 3,510 $ 3,549 (1.1) % $ 3,115 13.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,517 1,639 (7.4) % 1,660 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 383 397 (3.5) % 387 2.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 50 62 (19.4) % 57 8.8 % Total Retail 5,460 5,647 (3.3) % 5,219 8.2 % Other Revenue (b) 596 557 7.0 % 555 0.4 % Total Electric Revenues $ 6,056 $ 6,204 (2.4) % $ 5,774 7.4 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed delivery charges. For customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, revenue also reflects the cost of energy. (b) Other revenue primarily includes transmission revenue from PJM. 123 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2011 2010 Favorable(unfavorable)2011 vs. 2010variance 2009 Favorable(unfavorable)2010 vs. 2009variance Operating revenues $ 3,720 $ 5,519 $ (1,799 ) $ 5,311 $ 208 Purchased power and fuel expense 1,864 2,762 898 2,746 (16 ) Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 1,856 2,757 (901 ) 2,565 192 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 725 680 (45 ) 640 (40 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 69 53 (16 ) (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 202 1,060 858 952 (108 ) Taxes other than income 205 303 98 276 (27 ) Total other operating expenses 1,201 2,096 895 1,868 (228 ) Operating income 655 661 (6 ) 697 (36 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (134 ) (193 ) 59 (187 ) (6 ) Loss in equity method investments (24 ) 24 Other, net 14 8 6 13 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (120 ) (185 ) 65 (198 ) 13 Income before income taxes 535 476 59 499 (23 ) Income taxes 146 152 6 146 (6 ) Net income 389 324 65 353 (29 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 385 $ 320 $ 65 $ 349 $ (29 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily driven by new distribution rates effective January 1, 2011 as a result of the 2010 electric and natural gas rate case settlements, decreased interest expense and decreased income tax expense. The increase in net income was partially offset by increased storm costs, increased depreciation expense and the net impact of the 2010 CTC recoveries reflected in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense and CTC amortization expense, both of which ceased at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2010. The decreased interest expense related to the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily a result of the election of the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the election of the safe harbor method. 124 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by increased operating expenses partially offset by increased electric revenues net of purchased power expense. The increase in operating expenses reflected higher storm costs and increased scheduled CTC amortization expense. Electric revenues net of purchase power expense increased as a result of favorable weather conditions and increased CTC recoveries. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to operating revenue that are offset by their impact on purchased power and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers were capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECOs electric generation rates are based on actual costs incurred through its approved competitive market procurement process. Electric and gas revenues and purchased power and fuel expenses are affected by fluctuations in commodity procurement costs. PECOs electric generation and natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly and are designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of electric supply and natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs GSA and PGC, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in electric supply and natural gas procurement costs have no impact on electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expenses. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the customer choice program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customer choice of electric generation suppliers does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy service. Customer choice program activity has no impact on net income. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 387,600, 36,600 and 21,700 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 25%, 2% and 1% of total retail customers, respectively. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 57%, 1% and 1% of PECOs retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (33 ) $ (13 ) $ (46 ) Volume (11 ) 3 (8 ) CTC recoveries (995 ) (995 ) Regulatory program cost recovery 17 17 Pricing 139 16 155 Other (29 ) 5 (24 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (912 ) $ 11 $ (901 ) Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric and gas revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due 125 Table of Contents to unfavorable weather conditions during 2011 in PECOs service territory compared to 2010 despite setting a new record for highest electric peak load of 8,983 MWs on July 22, 2011. Heating and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Normal weather is determined based on historical average heating and cooling degree days for a 30 year period in PECOs service territory. The changes in heating and cooling degree days in PECOs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and normal weather consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days 2011 2010 Normal From 2010 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,157 4,396 4,638 (5.4 )% (10.4 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,617 1,817 1,292 (11.0 )% 25.2 % Volume The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected weak economic growth, the impact of energy efficiency initiatives on customer usage and the ramp down of two oil refineries. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding energy efficiency initiatives. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense related to delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased usage per customer across all customer classes. CTC Recoveries The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense related to CTC recoveries reflected the absence of the CTC charge component that was included in rates charged to customers in 2010. PECO fully recovered all stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to increased recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency and smart meter programs as well as administrative costs for the GSA and AEPS programs. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and equal and offsetting expenses are included in operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs, depreciation and amortization expense, and income taxes. Pricing The increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of pricing primarily reflected an increase of the new electric and natural gas distribution rates charged to customers that became effective January 1, 2011 in accordance with the 2010 PAPUC approved electric and natural gas distribution rate case settlements. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 126 Table of Contents Other The decrease in electric operating revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected a decrease in GRT revenue as a result of lower supplied energy service and retail transmission revenues earned by PECO due to increased participation in the customer choice program. There is an equal and offsetting decrease in GRT expense included in taxes other than income. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in wholesale transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The rates charged for wholesale transmission are based on the prior years peak, and the peak in 2010 was higher than in 2009. The increase in gas operating revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected an increase in off system gas sales activity. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. The changes in PECOs operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ 81 $ (2 ) $ 79 CTC recoveries 66 66 Regulatory program cost recovery 53 53 Pricing 12 12 Other (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 195 $ (3 ) $ 192 Weather Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were higher due to favorable weather conditions during the summer months of 2010 in PECOs service territory. The increase was partially offset by lower gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the winters months of 2010 compared to 2009. The changes in heating and cooling degree days for the twelve months ended 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following: % Change Heating and Cooling Degree Days (a) 2010 2009 Normal From 2009 From Normal Twelve Months Ended December 31, Heating Degree Days 4,396 4,534 4,638 (3.0 )% (5.2 )% Cooling Degree Days 1,817 1,246 1,292 45.8 % 40.6 % CTC Recoveries The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of CTC recoveries reflected a scheduled increase to the CTC component of the capped generation rates charged to customers, which resulted in a decrease to the energy component and reduced purchase power expense under the PPA. Due to the lower than expected sales volume in 2009, the CTC increase was necessary to ensure full recovery of stranded costs during the final year of the transition period that expired on December 31, 2010. 127 Table of Contents Regulatory Program Cost Recovery The increase in electric revenues relating to regulatory program cost recovery was due to the recovery of costs associated with the energy efficiency program and the consumer education program, respectively. The costs of these programs are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates and have been reflected in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs during the period. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected an increase in the average price charged to commercial and industrial customers due to decreased usage per customer. The rates charged to customers decrease when usage exceeds a certain threshold. Other The decrease in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense primarily reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. The decrease in other gas revenues net of fuel expense primarily reflected lower late payment revenues in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating and Maintenance Expense The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2011 compared to 2010 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials $ 26 Storm related costs 13 Uncollectible accounts expense 4 2010 non cash charge resulting from Health Care Legislation (2 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 45 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Storm related costs $ 22 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 25 Uncollectible accounts expense (3 ) Severance (3 ) Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 40 128 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance for Regulatory Required Programs Operating and maintenance expense related to regulatory required programs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of costs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through approved regulated rates. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the current period. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 Smart meter program $ 9 $ EE&C program 2 50 GSA administrative costs 5 AEPS administrative costs 1 Consumer education program (1 ) 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs $ 16 $ 53 Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 CTC amortization (a) $ (885 ) $ 98 Other 27 10 Increase (decrease) in depreciation and amortization expense $ (858 ) $ 108 (a) PECOs scheduled CTC amortization was recorded in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2010. Taxes Other Than Income The change in taxes other than income for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010 Increase(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009 PURTA amortization $ (4 )(a) $ 2 (b) GRT expense (97 )(c) 22 Other 3 3 Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ (98 ) $ 27 (a) The decrease in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2011 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund a 2009 PURTA Supplemental Tax settlement to customers. (b) The increase in taxes other than income related to PURTA amortization reflects the impact of regulatory liability amortization recorded in 2009 and 2008 that offsets the distribution rate reduction made to refund the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. (c) The decrease in GRT expense for 2011 compared to 2010 was a result of lower operating revenues. 129 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased interest expense as a result of the retirement of PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010 and the impact of interest expense incurred in June 2010 related to the change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in measurement of uncertain tax positions in accordance with accounting guidance. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense resulting from the retirement of the PETT transition bonds on September 1, 2010. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Loss in Equity Method Investments Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the loss in equity method investments for 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the consolidation of PETT in accordance with authoritative guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010. PETT was dissolved on September 20, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010. The increase in Other, net for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased investment income and AFUDC Equity. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in Other, net for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased investment income and a decrease in interest income related to a change in measurement of uncertain income tax positions in 2010. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 27.3%, 31.9% and 29.3%, respectively. The decrease in effective income tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to the impact of electing the safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric distribution property. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 130 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries to customers (in GWhs) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal %Change Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential 13,687 13,913 (1.6) % 1.7 % 12,893 7.9 % 0.5 % Small commercial & industrial 8,321 8,503 (2.1) % (0.7) % 8,397 1.3 % (1.9) % Large commercial & industrial 15,677 16,372 (4.2) % (3.3) % 15,848 3.3 % 0.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 945 925 2.2 % 4.6 % 930 (0.5) % (0.3) % Total Electric Retail 38,630 39,713 (2.7) % (0.9) % 38,068 4.3 % 0.1 % As of December 31, Number of Electric Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 1,415,681 1,411,643 1,404,416 Small commercial & industrial 157,137 156,865 156,305 Large commercial & industrial 3,110 3,071 3,094 Public authorities & electric railroads 1,122 1,102 1,085 Total 1,577,050 1,572,681 1,564,900 Electric Revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Residential $ 1,934 $ 2,069 (6.5 )% $ 1,859 11.3 % Small commercial & industrial 584 1,060 (44.9 )% 1,034 2.5 % Large commercial & industrial 304 1,362 (77.7 )% 1,307 4.2 % Public authorities & electric railroads 38 89 (57.3 )% 90 (1.1 )% Total Retail 2,860 4,580 (37.6 )% 4,290 6.8 % Other Revenue 249 255 (2.4 )% 259 (1.5 )% Total Electric Revenues $ 3,109 $ 4,835 (35.7 )% $ 4,549 6.3 % (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO and customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. For customers purchasing electricity from PECO, revenue also reflects the cost of energy and transmission. (b) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale revenue. 131 Table of Contents PECO Gas Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Deliveries to customers (inmmcf) 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 Weather Normal %Change 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Weather Normal%Change Retail Delivery and Sales (b) Retail sales 54,239 56,833 (4.6 )% 1.2 % 57,103 (0.5 )% 0.9 % Transportation and other 28,204 30,911 (8.8 )% (7.5 )% 27,206 13.6 % 10.8 % Total Gas Deliveries 82,443 87,744 (6.0 )% (1.8 )% 84,309 4.1 % 4.1 % As of December 31, Number of Gas Customers 2011 2010 2009 Residential 451,382 448,391 444,923 Commercial & industrial 41,373 41,303 40,991 Total Retail 492,755 489,694 485,914 Transportation 879 838 778 Total 493,634 490,532 486,692 Gas revenue 2011 2010 % Change2011 vs. 2010 2009 % Change2010 vs. 2009 Retail Delivery and Sales (a) Retail sales $ 575 $ 656 (12.3 )% $ 732 (10.4 )% Transportation and other 36 28 28.6 % 30 (6.7 )% Total Gas Deliveries $ 611 $ 684 (10.7 )% $ 762 (10.2 )% (a) Reflects delivery revenues and volumes from customers purchasing natural gas directly from PECO and customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier as all customers are assessed distribution charges. The cost of natural gas is charged to customers purchasing natural gas from PECO. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $0.5 billion, $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively. Additionally, Generation has access to a supplemental credit facility with an aggregate available commitment of $0.3 billion. The Registrants credit facilities extend through March 2016 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and March 2013 for ComEd. Availability under the supplemental facility extends through December 2015 for $150 million of the $300 million commitment and March 2016 for the remaining $150 million. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. 132 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be delayed or limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Proposed Merger Commitments As part of the application for approval of the merger by the MDPSC and related settlements, Exelon and Constellation have proposed a package of benefits to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company customers, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, which results in a direct investment, including capital projects, in the State of Maryland of more than $1 billion. Exelon will evaluate the funding sources for these commitments at the time the specific investments or contributions are made. The funding may be through a combination of cash on the balance sheet, cash from operations or external financing. Of the $1 billion, Exelon estimates that approximately $150 200 million will be funded in 2012 with the remainder funded in 2013 and beyond. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the proposed merger with Constellation. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services. ComEds and PECOs distribution services are provided to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Management considers various factors when making pension funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, management of the pension obligation and regulatory implications. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $139 million to its pension plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $60 million, $22 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon contributed approximately $2.1 billion to its pension plans in January 2011 of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $954 million, $873 million and $110 million, respectively. Exelon funded the $2.1 billion contribution with approximately $500 million from cash from operations, $750 million from the tax benefits of making the pension contributions and $850 million associated with the accelerated cash tax benefits from the 100% bonus depreciation provision enacted as part of the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Exelon contributed $766 million and $441 million to its pension plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 pension contributions. Unlike the qualified pension plans, Exelons other postretirement plans are not subject to regulatory minimum contribution requirements. Management considers several factors in determining the level of contributions to Exelons other postretirement benefit plans, including levels of benefit 133 Table of Contents claims paid and regulatory implications (amounts deemed prudent to meet regulatory expectations and best assure continued recovery). Exelon expects to contribute approximately $302 million to the other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to contribute $132 million, $114 million and $34 million, respectively. Exelon contributed $277 million, $213 million and $167 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts do not reflect Federal prescription drug subsidy payments received of $11 million, $10 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Registrants 2011 and 2010 other postretirement benefit contributions. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated future pension and other postretirement benefits contributions. Tax Matters The Registrants future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by the following tax matters: In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelons involuntary conversion and CTC positions. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, Exelon estimates that the IRS will assess tax and interest of approximately $300 million in 2012, and that Exelon will receive additional tax refunds of approximately $365 million between 2012 and 2014. In order to stop additional interest from accruing on the IRS expected assessment, Exelon made a payment in December 2010 to the IRS of $302 million. During 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement with respect to the like kind exchange position and the related substantial understatement penalty. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding potential cash flows impacts of a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons like kind exchange position. On August 19, 2011, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011 43 that provides a safe harbor method of tax accounting for electric transmission and distribution property. ComEd intends to adopt the safe harbor in the Revenue Procedure in future periods as the associated tax cash benefits are received for the 2011 tax year. PECO adopted the safe harbor for the 2010 tax year. This change to the newly prescribed method will result in an initial cash tax benefit (primarily in 2011) at Exelon, ComEd and PECO in the amount of approximately $300 million, $250 million and $95 million, respectively, partially offset by a cash tax detriment at Generation in the amount of $28 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the regulatory treatment prescribed in the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement for PECOs cash tax benefit resulting from the application of the method change to years prior to 2010. The IRS anticipates issuing guidance in 2012 on the appropriate tax treatment of repair costs for gas distribution assets. Upon issuance of this guidance, PECO will assess its impact, and if it results in a cash benefit to Exelon, PECO will file a request for change in method of tax accounting for repair costs. PECOs approved 2010 natural gas distribution rate case settlement stipulates that the expected cash benefit resulting from the application of the new methodology to prior tax years must be refunded to customers over a seven year period. The prospective tax benefit claimed as a result of the new methodology should be reflected in tax expense in the year in which it is claimed on the tax return and will be reflected in the determination of revenue requirements in the next natural gas distribution base rate case. The Tax Relief Act of 2010, enacted into law on December 17, 2010, includes provisions accelerating the depreciation of certain property for tax purposes. Qualifying property placed into service after September 8, 2010, and before January 1, 2012, is eligible for 100% bonus depreciation. Additionally, qualifying property placed into service during 2012 is eligible for 134 Table of Contents 50% bonus depreciation. These provisions will generate approximately $1.1 billion of cash for Exelon (approximately $850 million in 2011 and approximately $300 million in 2012). The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that Exelon would have otherwise received over 20 years. Additionally, while the capital additions at ComEd and PECO generally increase future revenue requirements, the bonus depreciation associated with these capital additions will partially mitigate any future rate increases through the ratemaking process. See the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits section above for further details regarding the use of the cash generated under the Tax Relief Act of 2010. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the 2011 Illinois State Tax Rate Legislation, which increases the corporate income tax rate in Illinois. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010Variance 2009 2010 vs. 2009Variance Net income $ 2,495 $ 2,563 $ (68 ) $ 2,707 $ (144 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 4,848 4,340 508 3,930 410 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (2,360 ) (959 ) (1,401 ) (588 ) (371 ) Income taxes 492 (543 ) 1,035 (29 ) (514 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (275 ) 122 (397 ) (82 ) 204 Option premiums paid, net (3 ) (124 ) 121 (40 ) (84 ) Counterparty collateral received (paid), net (344 ) (155 ) (189 ) 196 (351 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ (391 ) $ 6,094 $ (850 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 4,853 $ 5,244 $ 6,094 Generation 3,313 3,032 3,930 ComEd 836 1,077 1,020 PECO 818 1,150 1,166 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Generation During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net (payments) receipts of counterparty collateral of $(410) million, $(1) million and $195 million, respectively. Net payments during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $23 million in 2010 and $118 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Generation had fulfilled its commitments under the Illinois Settlement Legislation. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively, primarily due to changes in receivables for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generations accounts receivable from PECO primarily due to the PPA increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Generation had net payments of approximately $3 million, $124 million and $40 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds net payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its supplier forward contract, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract settlements increased (decreased) by $12 million, $(65) million and $(28) million, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(43) million, $58 million and $(68) million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, ComEd received $63 million and posted $153 million, respectively, of incremental cash collateral with PJM due to seasonal variations in its energy transmission activity levels. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, ComEd had $90 million and $153 million of cash collateral remaining at PJM. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, ComEd used letters of credit to cover all PJM collateral requirements. PECO During 2011, 2010 and 2009, PECOs payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $(210) million, $74 million and $48 million, respectively, and payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $97 million, $1 million and $(43) million, respectively. PECOs decrease in payables to Generation and increase in payables to other energy suppliers in 2011 is due to the expiration of the PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon (a)(b)(d) $ (4,603 ) $ (3,894 ) $ (3,458 ) Generation (a)(d) (3,077 ) (2,896 ) (2,220 ) ComEd (1,007 ) (939 ) (821 ) PECO (b) (557 ) (120 ) (377 ) Capital expenditures by Registrant for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and projected amounts for 2012 are as follows: Projected2012 (c) 2011 2010 2009 Generation (d) $ 3,768 $ 2,491 $ 1,883 $ 1,977 ComEd (e) 1,330 1,028 962 854 PECO 436 481 545 388 Other (f) 48 42 (64 ) 54 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 5,582 $ 4,042 $ 3,326 $ 3,273 (a) Includes $387 million in 2011 related to acquisitions, principally acquisition of Wolf Hollow, Antelope Valley and Shooting Star; and $893 million in 2010, related to the acquisition of Exelon Wind. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes a cash inflow of $413 million in 2010 as a result of the consolidation of PETT on January 1, 2010. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) The projected capital expenditures do not include adjustments for non cash activity. (d) Includes nuclear fuel. (e) The projected capital expenditures include $233 million in incremental spending related to ComEds 2012 investment plan filed with the ICC on January 6, 2012. Pursuant to EIMA, under which ComEd has committed to invest approximately $2.6 billion over the next ten years to modernize and storm harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. (f) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. The negative capital expenditures for Other in 2010 primarily relate to the transfer of information technology hardware and software assets from BSC to Generation, ComEd and PECO. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation Approximately 34% and 31% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at Generation are for investments in renewable energy generation, including Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind construction costs; and the acquisition of nuclear fuel, respectively, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Also included in the projected 2012 capital expenditures are a portion of the costs of a series of planned power uprates across Generations nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO Approximately 80% and 69% of the projected 2012 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems such as ComEds reliability related investments required under EIMA and ComEd and PECOs construction commitments under PJMs RTEP. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer 137 Table of Contents growth, which for ComEd includes capital expenditures related to smart grid/smart meter technology required under EIMA and for PECO includes capital expenditures related to its smart meter program and SGIG project, net of DOE expected reimbursements. See Notes 2 and 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, NERC provided guidance to transmission owners that recommends ComEd and PECO perform assessments of all their transmission lines, with the highest priority lines assessed by December 31, 2011, medium priority lines by December 31, 2012, and the lowest priority lines by December 31, 2013. In compliance with this guidance, ComEd and PECO submitted their most recent bi annual reports to NERC in January 2012. ComEd and PECO will be incurring incremental capital expenditures associated with this guidance following the completion of the assessments. Specific projects and expenditures are identified as the assessments are completed. ComEds and PECOs forecasted 2012 capital expenditures above reflect capital spending for remediation pursuant to the assessments completed as of December 31, 2011. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings, including ComEds capital expenditures associated with EIMA as further discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ (846 ) $ (1,748 ) $ (1,897 ) Generation (196 ) (779 ) (1,746 ) ComEd 355 (179 ) (155 ) PECO (589 ) (811 ) (525 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuances of long term debt in 2011 Use of proceeds ComEd $600 million of First Mortgage 1.625% Bonds, Series 110, due January 15, 2014 Used as an interim source of liquidity for a January 2011 contribution to Exelon sponsored pension plans. ComEd $250 million of First Mortgage 1.95% Bonds, Series 111, due September 1, 2016 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $350 million of First Mortgage 3.40% Bonds, Series 112, due September 1, 2021 Used to retire $191 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, E, and F, retire $345 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, and for other general corporate purposes. 138 Table of Contents Company Issuances of long term debt in 2010 Use of proceeds Generation $900 million of Senior Notes, consisting of $550 million Senior Notes, 4.00% due October 1, 2020 and $350 million Senior Notes, 5.75% due October 1, 2041 Used to finance the acquisition of Exelon Wind and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds at 4.00% due August 1, 2020 Used to refinance First Mortgage Bonds, Series 102, which matured on August 15, 2010 and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuances of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased on February 23, 2009. (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million of Senior Notes at 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes at 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due in 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due in 2011 and to fun ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E due March 21, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F due May 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds. (c) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. (a) Repurchase required due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 Generation $2 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $2 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $50 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2011 ComEd $91 million of tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $345 million of 5.40% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 PECO $250 million of 5.95% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due November 1, 2011 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2010 Exelon Corporate $400 million of 4.45% 2005 Senior Notes, due June 15, 2010 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 Generation $13 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 B Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 Generation $17 million of Indiana County Series 2003 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2027 Generation $19 million of York County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $23 million of Salem County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2025 Generation $24 million of Delaware County Series 1993 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due August 1, 2016 Generation $34 million of Montgomery County Series 1996 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due March 1, 2034 Generation $83 million of Montgomery County Series 1994 A Tax Exempt Bonds with variable interest rates, due June 1, 2029 ComEd $1 million of 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due December 1, 2011 ComEd $212 million of 4.74% First Mortgage Bonds, due August 15, 2010 PECO $806 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes, due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes, due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 140 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 21, 2021 (b) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt on their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ 1,393 $ 1,389 $ 1,385 Generation 172 1,508 2,276 ComEd 300 310 240 PECO 352 228 316 First Quarter 2012 Dividend. On October 25, 2011, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock payable on March 9, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2012. Second Quarter 2012 Dividend. In addition, on January 24, 2012, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a second quarter 2012 regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock contingent on the pending merger with Constellation. If the effective date of the merger is after May 15, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, payable on June 8, 2012, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on May 15, 2012. If the effective date of the merger is on or before May 15, 2012, shareholders will receive two separate dividend payments totaling $0.525 per share: The first of the dividend payments will be pro rated, with shareholders of record as of the end of day before the effective date of the merger receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the 141 Table of Contents period from and including February 16, 2012, the day after the record date for the previous dividend, through and including the day before the effective date of the merger. This portion of the dividend will be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the merger. The second of the dividend payments will also be pro rated, with all Exelon shareholders, including the former Constellation shareholders, of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2012, receiving $0.00583 per share per day for the period from and including the effective date of the merger through and including May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Short Term Borrowings. Short term borrowings incurred (repaid) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 ComEd $ $ (155 ) $ 95 PECO (95 ) Other (a) 161 (56 ) Exelon $ 161 $ (155 ) $ (56 ) (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Exelon $ $ $ 709 PECO 709 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2011, 2010 and 2009 by Registrant were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Generation $ 30 $ 62 $ 57 ComEd 2 8 PECO (a) 18 223 347 (a) $180 million and $320 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent, which was completely repaid as of December 31, 2010. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $38 million, $48 million and $42 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Matters Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO. The Registrants had access to the commercial paper market during 2011 to fund their short term liquidity needs, when necessary. The Registrants routinely review the 142 Table of Contents sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flows from operating activities, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $1,819 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $1,819 million includes $1,612 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $227 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $1.0 billion. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2011, it would have been required to provide collateral of $1 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $54 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which, in the aggregate, is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of approximately $600 million. Exelon Credit Facilities See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants credit facilities and short term borrowing activity. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure. At December 31, 2011, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Long term debt 45 % 30 % 44 % 37 % Long term debt to affiliates (a) 2 2 3 Common equity 52 54 54 Members equity 70 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 4 (a) Includes approximately $390 million, $206 million and $184 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. 143 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2011 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2011: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2011Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ $ 335 $ PECO 465 82 BSC 220 (82 ) Exelon Corporate 261 N/A Shelf Registration Statements. Each of the Registrants has a current shelf registration statement effective with the SEC that provides for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations. The issuance by ComEd and PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC and PAPUC, respectively. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd had $41 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $456 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2011, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2013 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the receipt of dividends paid by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had retained earnings of $10,055 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $4,232 million, ComEds retained earnings of $447 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $2,086 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $559 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. 144 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following tables summarize the Registrants future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2011 under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Registrants commercial and other commitments, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events. Exelon Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 13,000 $ 825 $ 1,919 $ 1,725 $ 8,531 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,454 663 1,197 1,023 5,571 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 191 1 190 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (d) 669 72 118 92 387 Purchase power obligations (e) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (f) 8,722 1,491 2,092 1,870 3,269 Electric supply procurement (f) 682 469 193 20 REC and AEC purchase commitments (f) 15 3 5 2 5 Curtailment services commitments (f) 13 13 Long term renewable energy and REC commitments (g) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (h) (i) 595 282 232 66 15 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (j) 6 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Pension minimum funding requirement (k) 1,950 96 239 1,352 263 Total contractual obligations $ 37,964 $ 4,148 $ 6,277 $ 6,432 $ 20,917 $ 190 (a) Includes $390 million due after 2016 to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2011, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $191 million and $10 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. Includes estimated cash payments for service fees related to PECOs meter reading operating lease. (e) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (f) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, nuclear fuel and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for electric and gas purchase commitments. 145 Table of Contents (g) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (h) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (i) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. (j) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (k) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions and at risk status. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2016 are currently not reliably estimable. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding estimated future pension benefit payments. Generation Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt $ 3,648 $ $ 500 $ $ 3,148 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,999 202 378 351 2,068 Liability and interest for uncertain taxbenefits (b) 110 110 Capital leases 34 3 6 7 18 Operating leases (c) 432 29 54 54 295 Purchase power obligations (d) 922 188 134 122 478 Fuel purchase agreements (e) 8,211 1,317 1,935 1,783 3,176 Other purchase obligations (f) 388 139 178 64 7 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,019 1,019 Total contractual obligations $ 17,763 $ 1,878 $ 3,185 $ 2,381 $ 10,209 $ 110 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. (b) As of December 31, 2011, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions was $110 million. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Excludes PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. These amounts are included within purchase power obligations. (d) Purchase power obligations include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding fuel purchase agreements. (f) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. 146 Table of Contents ComEd Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 5,893 $ 450 $ 869 $ 925 $ 3,649 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,380 280 507 456 2,137 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 70 70 Operating leases 125 15 26 23 61 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 6 6 Electric supply procurement 678 207 471 REC purchase commitments 1 1 Long term renewable energy and associated REC commitments (e) 1,692 36 142 153 1,361 Other purchase obligations (f) (g) 51 48 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,896 $ 1,043 $ 2,018 $ 1,557 $ 7,208 $ 70 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2016 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2011. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2011, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions was $70 million. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into 20 year contracts with several unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. See Note 2 of Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. (g) Excludes obligations associated with the January 25, 2012 materials agreement between ComEd and Silver Springs Network, Inc. (Silver Spring) by which Silver Spring will deliver a smart grid platform to ComEds system. ComEd has the right to terminate the agreement upon written notice to Silver Spring if ComEd fails to obtain required regulatory approvals, including ICC approval of ComEds AMI Deployment Plan associated with EIMA. PECO Payment due within Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Due 2017and beyond AllOther Long term debt (a) $ 2,159 $ 375 $ 550 $ $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,272 114 177 142 839 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 4 1 3 Operating leases 57 21 30 6 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 511 174 157 87 93 Electric supply procurement (d) 1,088 760 303 25 AEC purchase commitments (d) 39 7 20 4 8 Curtailment services commitments (d) 13 13 Other purchase obligations (e) 98 53 35 2 8 Total contractual obligations $ 5,241 $ 1,518 $ 1,272 $ 266 $ 2,182 $ 3 147 Table of Contents (a) Includes $184 million due after 2017 to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2011 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (c) As of December 31, 2011, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $4 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services, procure electric supply, and purchase AECs and curtailment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Registrants other commitments potentially triggered by future events. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 12 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. variable interest entities, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. nuclear insurance, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the 148 Table of Contents amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including portions of ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges, including the ComEd financial swap contract, will occur during 2012 through 2014. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under the accounting guidance for derivatives as further discussed in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2011, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 88% 91%, 61% 64% and 32% 35% for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price risk exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2011 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $45 million, $289 million and $535 million, respectively, for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price risk exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation also enters into certain energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure and is subject to limits established by Exelons RMC. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and Value at Risk (VaR) limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. The proprietary trading activities, which included physical volumes of 5,742 GWh, 3,625 GWh and 7,578 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio, but represent a small portion of Generations overall revenue from energy marketing activities. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in pre tax gains of $24 million due to net mark to market losses of $3 million and realized gains of $27 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. The 149 Table of Contents daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $80,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6,858 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal and natural gas through long term and short term contracts, and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained primarily through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 55% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2012 through 2016 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. This financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd expires on May 31, 2013. ComEds RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. On December 17, 2010, ComEd entered into several 20 year floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers regarding the procurement of long term renewable energy and associated RECs. Delivery under these contracts begins in June 2012. Because ComEd receives full cost recovery for energy procurement and related costs from retail customers, the change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding energy procurement and derivatives. PECO Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO had transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk related to its procurement of electric supply to Generation through a PPA that expired on December 31, 2010. The PPA was not considered a derivative under current authoritative derivative guidance. Pursuant to PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply for default service customers in June 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011 through block contracts and full requirements contracts. PECOs full requirements contracts and block contracts that are considered derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under current authoritative derivative guidance. Under the DSP Program, PECO is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. 150 Table of Contents PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts, which either qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception or have no mark to market balances because the derivatives are index priced, to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. PECOs hedging program for natural gas procurement has no direct impact on its financial position or results of operations as natural gas costs are fully recovered from customers under the PGC. PECO does not enter into derivatives for speculative or proprietary trading purposes. For additional information on these contracts, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchase and normal sales contracts. For additional information on the cash flow hedge gains and losses included within accumulated OCI and the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 refer to Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2010 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 Total change in fair value during 2010 of contracts recorded in result of operations 415 415 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (328 ) (328 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 1 1 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (1,125 ) 371 (754 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 883 (378 ) 505 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) (5 ) 7 2 Changes in collateral (4 ) (4 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (f) 73 73 Other balance sheet reclassifications (5 ) (5 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 (a) $ 1,803 $ (971 ) $ (9 ) $ $ 823 Total change in fair value during 2011 of contracts recorded in result of operations 241 241 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (541 ) (541 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (b) 9 9 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (c) (968 ) 456 (512 ) 151 Table of Contents Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (g) Exelon Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (d) 827 (170 ) 657 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (e) 171 9 (286 ) (106 ) Changes in collateral 411 411 Changes in net option premium paid/(received) 3 3 Other income statement reclassifications (f) (137 ) (137 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2011 (a) $ 1,648 $ (800 ) $ $ $ 848 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, reflects $9 million and $1 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd or Generations block contracts with PECO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) For Generation, includes $451 million and $371 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $5 million of losses from reclassifications from accumulated OCI to recognize gains in net income related to settlements of the PECO block contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. (d) For Generation, includes $170 million and $375 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $3 million of gains related to the changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2010. The PECO block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010. As such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded and the mark to market balances previously recorded were amortized over the terms of the contracts, which ended December 31, 2011. (e) For ComEd and PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $800 million and $975 million, respectively, related to its mark to market derivative liabilities with Generation and unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd also had a regulatory liability of $4 million related to mark to market derivative assets with unaffiliated suppliers. During 2011 and 2010, this includes $170 million and $375 million of decreases in fair value, respectively, and $451 million and $371 million of realized gains, respectively, due to settlements of ComEds five year financial swap with Generation. During 2011 and 2010 ComEd also recorded a $110 million decrease and a $4 million increase, respectively, in fair value associated with floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, PECO recorded a regulatory asset of $9 million related to its mark to market derivative liabilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, PECOs change included $3 million related to the change in fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. PECOs block contracts were designated as normal sales as of May 31, 2010 and, as such, no additional changes in the fair value of PECOs block contracts were recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2011, PECOs mark to market derivative liability was fully amortized, including $5 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation, in accordance with the terms of the contracts. (f) Includes $137 million and $73 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (g) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. Fair Values The following tables present maturity and source of fair value of the Registrants mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities). The tables provide two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market net assets (liabilities). Second, the tables show the maturity, by year, of the Registrants energy contract net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy. 152 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Total $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (d) 67 13 (5 ) (1 ) (11 ) (46 ) 17 Total $ (18 ) $ 101 $ 106 $ 31 $ (11 ) $ (46 ) $ 163 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. (d) Includes ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 339 $ 246 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 685 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 503 191 694 Total $ 842 $ 437 $ 99 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,379 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by external sources (84 ) 88 111 32 147 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 76 29 9 10 (1 ) 123 Total $ (9 ) $ 117 $ 120 $ 42 $ (1 ) $ $ 269 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Amounts include a $694 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties (and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities) of $540 million at December 31, 2011. 153 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andBeyond FairValue Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (512 ) $ (207 ) $ (14 ) $ (11 ) $ (10 ) $ (46 ) $ (800 ) (a) Represents ComEds net assets (liabilities) associated with the five year financial swap with Generation and the floating to fixed energy swap contracts with unaffiliated suppliers. Credit Risk, Collateral, and Contingent Related Features (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties with whom they enter into derivative instruments. The credit exposure of derivative contracts, before collateral and netting, is represented by the fair value of contracts at the reporting date. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detail discussion of credit risk, collateral, and contingent related features. Generation The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements, and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2011. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the duration of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $70 million and $39 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2011 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,581 $ 351 $ 1,230 1 $ 179 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 63 14 49 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,650 $ 367 $ 1,283 1 $ 179 154 Table of Contents Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2011 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,127 $ 359 $ 95 $ 1,581 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 49 10 4 63 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,182 $ 369 $ 99 $ 1,650 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As ofDecember 31,2011 Financial Institutions $ 391 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 552 Energy cooperatives and municipalities 282 Other 58 Total $ 1,283 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on forward market prices compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the forward prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of supplier bid submittals. If the forward market price of energy exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2011, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts to provide for the 155 Table of Contents potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the allowance for uncollectible accounts policy. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2011. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from the major credit rating agencies and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. To the extent that the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had no net credit exposure to suppliers. PECO does not obtain cash collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements; however, the natural gas asset managers have provided $14 million in parental guarantees related to these agreements. As of December 31, 2011, PECO had credit exposure of $11 million under its natural gas supply and asset management agreements with investment grade suppliers. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding collateral requirements. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Generation depends on access to bank credit facilities which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. On March 23, 2011, Generation replaced their unsecured revolving credit facility with new a new facility with aggregate bank commitments of $5.3 billion. In addition, on 156 Table of Contents February 22, 2011, Generation satisfied all conditions precedent to the effectiveness and availability of credit under a bilateral credit facility for loans and letters of credit in the aggregate maximum amount of $300 million, which is the limit currently authorized by the board of directors of Exelon. See Note 10 Debt and Credit Agreements for additional information. As of December 31, 2011, Generation was holding $542 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $540 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, $2 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net derivative positions because it was not associated with energy related derivatives. As of December 31, 2010, Generation was holding $955 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $3 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $951 million were offset mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, $1 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. ComEd As of December 31, 2011, ComEd held an immaterial amount of cash and letters of credit for the purpose of collateral from suppliers in association with energy procurement contracts and held approximately $19 million in the form of cash and letters of credit for both annual and long term renewable energy contracts. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO As of December 31, 2011, PECO was not required to post collateral under its energy and natural gas procurement contracts. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. RTOs and ISOs (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions (Generation) Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse act as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. 157 Table of Contents Long Term Leases (Exelon) Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2011, included a $656 million net investment in coal fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long term leases. This investment represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of approximately $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $836 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms which are set at prices above the then expected fair market value of the plants. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options the lessees return the leasehold interests to Exelon and Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. In any event, Exelon is subject to residual value risk to the extent the fair value of the assets are less than the residual value. This risk is mitigated by the fair value of the fixed payments under the service contract. The term of the service contract, however, is less than the expected remaining useful life of the plants and, therefore, Exelons exposure to residual value risk will not be mitigated by payments under the service contract in this remaining period. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of Exelons counterparties to these long term leases. Since 2008, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. Exelon monitors the continuing credit quality of the credit enhancement party. Exelon performed annual assessments as of July 31, 2011 and 2010 of the estimated fair value of long term lease investments and concluded that the estimated fair values at the end of the lease terms exceeded the residual values ($1.5 billion as noted above) established at the lease dates and recorded as investments on Exelons balance sheet. Through December 31, 2011, no events have occurred or circumstances have changed that would require any formal reassessment subsequent to the July 2011 review. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding and Generation had $485 million of notional amounts of cash flow hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. 158 Table of Contents Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2011, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $342 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 159 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Generation General Generation operates in three segments: Mid Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West. The operation of all three segments consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. These segments are discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS Generation of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to credit facilities in the aggregate of $5.6 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 160 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 161 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS ComEd of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2011, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. ComEd expects to renew or replace the facility in the first half of 2012. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 162 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 163 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. This segment is discussed in further detail in ITEM 1. BUSINESS PECO of this Form 10 K. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2011 compared to 2010 and for 2010 compared to 2009 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $600 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 164 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 165 Table of Contents 
 
