ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) contains statements that are forward looking. We want to caution readers that any forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in this Form 10 K may change based on various factors. These forward looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially. Words such as estimate, target, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, and similar expressions may identify such forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause future financial performance to differ materially from the expectations as expressed in any forward looking statement made by or on our behalf include, without limitation: timely development and acceptance of new products success in gaining product approval in new markets where regulatory approval is required successful entry into new markets changes in postal or banking regulations declining physical mail volumes impact on mail volume resulting from current concerns over the use of the mail for transmitting harmful biological agents mailers utilization of alternative means of communication or competitors products our success at managing costs associated with our strategy of outsourcing functions and operations not central to our business our success at managing customer credit risk third party suppliers ability to provide product components, assemblies or inventories negative developments in economic conditions, including adverse impacts on customer demand changes in international or national political conditions, including any terrorist attacks interrupted use of key information systems intellectual property infringement claims changes in privacy laws significant increases in pension, health care and retiree medical costs changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other conditions to consummate and integrate any acquisitions income tax adjustments or other regulatory levies for prior audit years and changes in tax laws or regulations acts of nature The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Overview In 2011, revenue decreased 3% to $5,278 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a 2% favorable impact on revenue. Excluding the effects of foreign currency translation, the decrease in overall revenue was caused by lower equipment sales (6%), supplies revenue (5%), rental and financing revenue (7%) and services revenue (4%). Software revenue increased 6% compared to the prior year. Net income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders was $351 million, or $1.73 per diluted share for 2011 compared to $310 million or $1.50 per diluted share for 2010. These results include the following items: In February 2011, our largest mail presort facility located in Dallas, Texas was destroyed by a fire and we were unable to process customer mail at full capacity for a significant part of the year. We estimate that lost revenue from the fire was approximately $20 million. Through December 31, 2011, we received $42 million of insurance proceeds, which primarily relates to the reimbursement of lost revenue, replacement cost of equipment and additional expenses incurred as a result of the fire. We recognized $27 million of insurance recoveries in other income. The new Dallas presort facility has now reached operational efficiency comparable to the previous facility; Due to the continuing underperformance and long term outlook of the International Mailing Services operations (IMS) of our Mail Services segment, we recorded aggregate pre tax goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $46 million and $12 million, respectively; 11 Further, based on the results of our annual goodwill impairment review process, we recorded additional pre tax goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $84 million and $5 million, respectively related to the international operations of our Management Services segment (PBMSi); In September 2011, we completed a sale of non U.S. leveraged lease assets resulting in cash proceeds of $102 million and an after tax gain of $27 million. During the year, we entered into a series of settlements with the IRS in connection with its examinations of our tax years 2001 2008 under which we agreed upon both the tax treatment of a number of disputed issues, including issues related to our Capital Services business that was sold in 2006, and revised tax calculations. As a result of these settlements, we recognized tax benefits of $90 million in income from continuing operations and $264 million in discontinued operations. Our additional liability for tax and interest arising from the 2001 2008 IRS examinations was approximately $400 million, which was previously paid through the purchase of tax bonds. We generated $920 million in cash from operations, which was used primarily to reduce debt by $50 million, repurchase $100 million of our common stock, pay $300 million of dividends to our common stockholders and fund capital investments of $156 million. Net income attributable to Pitney Bowes was $617 million, or $3.05 per diluted share and included $266 million, or $1.31 per diluted share from discontinued operations. Outlook The worldwide economy and business environment continued to be uncertain during 2011 and we believe it will continue to be uncertain in 2012. We anticipate physical mail volumes will continue their gradual decline as alternative means of communications evolve and gain further acceptance. As a result, Small and Medium Business Solutions (SMB) revenue growth should continue to be challenged. We anticipate a gradual improvement in equipment sales in 2012 due, in part; to sales of Connect+TM communications systems, but a recovery in SMB revenues will lag any recovery in equipment sales. We anticipate revenue growth from increased demand for multi year software licensing agreements, increased placements of production print equipment and continued expansion in Mail Services operations will help offset the anticipated decline in SMB revenues. We will continue our focus on streamlining our business operations and creating more flexibility in our cost structure. Our growth strategies will focus on leveraging our expertise in physical communications with our expanding capabilities in digital and hybrid communications. We will continue to develop and invest in products, software, services and solutions that help customers grow their business by more effectively managing their physical and digital communications with their customers. Over time, we expect our mix of revenue to change, with a greater percentage of revenue coming from enterprise related products and solutions. We also expect to roll out other digitally based products and services but do not expect them to have a significant impact on our revenues for 2012. 12 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2011 Compared to 2010 Business segment results We conduct our business activities in seven reporting segments within two business groups, Small & Medium Business Solutions (SMB Solutions) and Enterprise Business Solutions (EB Solutions). The following table shows revenue and EBIT for each segment in 2011 and 2010. Segment EBIT, a non GAAP measure, is determined by deducting from segment revenue the related costs and expenses attributable to the segment. Segment EBIT excludes interest, taxes, general corporate expenses not allocated to a particular business segment, restructuring charges, asset impairments, and goodwill charges, which are recognized on a consolidated basis. Management uses segment EBIT to measure profitability and performance at the segment level. Segment EBIT may not be indicative of our overall consolidated performance and therefore, should be read in conjunction with our consolidated results of operations. Refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of segment EBIT to income from continuing operations before income taxes. All table amounts are presented in millions of dollars, unless otherwise stated. Amounts in the tables below may not sum to the total due to rounding. Revenue EBIT 2011 2010 % change 2011 2010 % change North America Mailing $ 1,961 $ 2,101 (7 )% $ 728 $ 755 (4 )% International Mailing 707 675 5 % 99 79 25 % SMB Solutions 2,669 2,775 (4 )% 827 834 (1 )% Production Mail 544 561 (3 )% 33 61 (47 )% Software 407 375 9 % 38 40 (5 )% Management Services 949 999 (5 )% 76 93 (18 )% Mail Services 567 573 (1 )% 88 63 39 % Marketing Services 142 142 % 26 26 % EB Solutions 2,609 2,650 (2 )% 261 283 (8 )% Total $ 5,278 $ 5,425 (3 )% $ 1,088 $ 1,117 (3 )% Small & Medium Business Solutions Small & Medium Business Solutions revenue decreased 4% to $2,669 million and EBIT decreased 1% to $827 million, compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of 2% on revenue. Within the Small & Medium Business Solutions group: North America Mailing revenue decreased 7% to $1,961 million and EBIT decreased 4% to $728 million, compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a less than 1% favorable impact on revenue. Excluding the effects of foreign currency, equipment sales declined 7% as increased concerns about economic conditions resulted in customers delaying purchases of new equipment and extending leases of existing equipment. Lease extensions are profitable transactions but generate less revenue in the current period than new equipment sales. The lagging effects of lower equipment sales in prior periods, fewer meter placements and declining mail volumes contributed to declines in financing revenue (8%), rental revenue (7%), supplies revenue (8%) and service revenue (4%). The decrease in EBIT was primarily due to lower revenues; however, EBIT margin improved as a result of continued productivity improvements and lower credit losses. International Mailing revenue increased 5% to $707 million compared to the prior year, but included a favorable impact of 6% from foreign currency translation. Excluding the effects of foreign currency, the underlying decrease was primarily due to lower equipment sales in the U.K., Germany, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America due to increased concerns about economic conditions throughout the regions. EBIT increased 25% to $99 million compared to the prior year due to continued productivity improvements. Foreign currency translation favorably impacted EBIT by 5%. Enterprise Business Solutions Enterprise Business Solutions revenue decreased 2% to $2,609 million and EBIT decreased 8% to $261 million, compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of 1% on revenue. Within the Enterprise Business Solutions group: Production Mail revenue decreased 3% to $544 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 2%. Excluding the effects of foreign currency, equipment sales decreased 11% as many enterprise accounts worldwide, especially 13 in Europe, delayed capital investment commitments. EBIT decreased 47% to $33 million compared to last year due to lower revenue and the expenses incurred in the development of VollyTM, our secure digital mail delivery service. Software revenue increased 9% to $407 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a 3% favorable impact on revenue and prior year acquisitions accounted for 3% of the increase. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher licensing revenue in most regions, particularly North America and Asia Pacific. We continue to enter into multi year software licensing agreements, which will provide improved recurring revenue streams in future periods. EBIT decreased 5% to $38 million compared to last year due to higher selling costs as a percentage of revenue. Foreign currency had a favorable impact of 7% on EBIT. Management Services revenue decreased 5% to $949 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 1%. EBIT decreased 18% to $76 million compared to the prior year. The decrease in revenue and EBIT was primarily due to account contractions and terminations in the U.S. last year and pricing pressure on new business and contract renewals. Mail Services revenue decreased 1% to $567 million compared to the prior year primarily due to a reduction in cross border mail and package shipments. EBIT increased 39% to $88 million compared to the prior year. EBIT in 2011 includes a benefit of $7 million related to the Dallas mail presort facility fire from the insurance recoveries of $27 million recognized in other income net of the lost revenue of approximately $20 million. We expect higher depreciation costs in future years related to the new equipment. The 2010 results include a one time out of period adjustment that reduced revenue by $21 million and EBIT by $16 million. Excluding the impacts of these items, EBIT increased 2%. Marketing Services revenue of $142 million and EBIT of $26 million was flat compared to the prior year. Revenue and Cost of revenue by source The following tables show revenue and cost of revenue by source for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: Revenue by source 2011 2010 % change Equipment sales $ 986 $ 1,023 (4 )% Supplies 308 318 (3 )% Software 427 390 9 % Rentals 564 601 (6 )% Financing 603 638 (6 )% Support services 707 712 (1 )% Business services 1,684 1,744 (3 )% Total revenue $ 5,278 $ 5,425 (3 )% Cost of revenue by source Percentage of Revenue 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cost of equipment sales $ 449 $ 469 45.6 % 45.9 % Cost of supplies 97 97 31.6 % 30.5 % Cost of software 99 93 23.2 % 23.9 % Cost of rentals 125 141 22.2 % 23.6 % Financing interest expense 88 88 14.5 % 13.8 % Cost of support services 453 452 64.1 % 63.5 % Cost of business services 1,304 1,337 77.4 % 76.7 % Total cost of revenue $ 2,615 $ 2,678 49.6 % 49.4 % Equipment salesEquipment sales revenue decreased 4% to $986 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 2%. Equipment sales continue to be impacted by many customers delaying capital investment commitments and extending leases of existing equipment. Cost of equipment sales as a percentage of revenue improved to 45.6% compared with 45.9% in the prior year due to the mix of higher margin product sales and lease extensions. 14 SuppliesSupplies revenue decreased 3% to $308 million compared to the prior year due to reduced mail volumes and fewer installed meters worldwide. Foreign currency translation had a 2% favorable impact. Cost of supplies as a percentage of revenue was 31.6% compared with 30.5% in the prior year primarily due to the mix of lower margin supply sales worldwide. SoftwareSoftware revenue increased 9% to $427 million compared to the prior year, with prior year acquisitions and foreign currency translation each contributing 3% of the increase. The remaining underlying increase of 3% was due to higher licensing revenue. Cost of software as a percentage of revenue improved to 23.2% compared with 23.9% in the prior year due to the increase in high margin licensing revenue. RentalsRentals revenue decreased 6% to $564 million compared to the prior year as customers in the U.S. continue to downsize to smaller, fully featured machines and fewer installed meters worldwide. Foreign currency translation had a 1% positive impact. Cost of rentals as a percentage of revenue improved to 22.2% compared with 23.6% in the prior year primarily due to lower depreciation associated with higher levels of lease extensions. FinancingFinancing revenue decreased 6% to $603 million compared to the prior year due to lower equipment sales in prior periods. Foreign currency translation had a 1% positive impact. Financing interest expense as a percentage of revenue was 14.5% compared with 13.8% in the prior year due to higher overall effective interest rates. In computing financing interest expense, which represents the cost of borrowing associated with the generation of financing revenues, we assume a 10:1 leveraging ratio of debt to equity and apply our overall effective interest rate to the average outstanding finance receivables. Support ServicesSupport services revenue decreased 1% to $707 million compared to the prior year driven by lower new equipment placements worldwide. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 2%. Cost of support services as a percentage of revenue increased to 64.1% compared with 63.5% in the prior year primarily due to an increase in installations of high end integrated mailing systems. Business ServicesBusiness services revenue decreased 3% to $1,684 million compared to the prior year primarily due to the loss of several large contracts in 2010. Foreign currency translation had a 1% favorable impact. Cost of business services as a percentage of revenue increased to 77.4% compared with 76.7% in the prior year primarily due to lower revenues, higher shipping costs in the International Mail Services operations, and pricing pressure on new business and contract renewals. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) SG&A expenses decreased $29 million; however, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and prior year acquisitions, SG&A expenses decreased $72 million, or 4% primarily due to process improvements and cost saving initiatives. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A expenses were 32.8% compared to 32.5% in the prior year. Research and development Research and development expenses decreased $8 million, or 5% from the prior year due to lower cost of offshore development, cost reduction initiatives and a reduction in development work for Connect+TM. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment Aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges were $130 million and $17 million, respectively. The intangible asset impairment charges are included in restructuring charges and asset impairments in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Critical Accounting Estimates in this MD&A and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Other income, net Other income, net of $20 million reflects the $27 million of insurance reimbursements recognized in other income in connection with claims associated with the fire at the Dallas presort mail facility and a pre tax loss of $7 million on the sale of non U.S. leveraged lease assets. 15 Income taxes / effective tax rate The effective tax rates for 2011 and 2010 were 10.8% and 38.5%, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2011 includes $90 million of tax benefits arising from the IRS tax settlements, a $34 million tax benefit from the aforementioned sale of non U.S. leveraged lease assets and a $4 million charge from the write off of deferred tax assets associated with the expiration of out of the money vested stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units previously granted to our employees. In addition, the effective tax rate for 2011 was increased due to a reduced tax benefit associated with the goodwill impairment charges. The effective tax rate for 2010 includes $16 million of tax benefits associated with previously unrecognized deferred taxes on outside basis differences, a $15 million charge for the write off of deferred tax assets associated with the expiration of out of the money vested stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units previously granted to our employees and a $9 million charge for the write off of deferred tax assets related to the U.S. health care reform legislation that eliminated the tax deduction for retiree health care costs to the extent of federal subsidies received by companies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits equivalent to Medicare Part D coverage. Discontinued operations See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Preferred stock dividends of subsidiaries attributable to noncontrolling interests See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 16 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 Compared to 2009 Business segment results The following table shows revenue and EBIT in 2010 and 2009 by business segment. Revenue EBIT 2010 2009 % change 2010 2009 % change North America Mailing $ 2,101 $ 2,211 (5 )% $ 755 $ 770 (2 )% International Mailing 675 698 (3 )% 79 99 (20 )% SMB Solutions 2,775 2,909 (5 )% 834 869 (4 )% Production Mail 561 531 6 % 61 52 18 % Software 375 356 5 % 40 34 18 % Management Services 999 1,061 (6 )% 93 72 28 % Mail Services 573 571 % 63 88 (28 )% Marketing Services 142 141 % 26 23 14 % EB Solutions 2,650 2,660 % 283 268 5 % Total $ 5,425 $ 5,569 (3 )% $ 1,117 $ 1,138 (2 )% Small & Medium Business Solutions Small & Medium Business Solutions revenue decreased 5% to $2,775 million and EBIT decreased 4% to $834 million, compared to the prior year. Within the Small & Medium Business Solutions group: North America Mailing revenue decreased 5% to $2,101 million and EBIT decreased 2% to $755 million, compared to the prior year. The revenue decrease was driven primarily by lower financing, rental, service and supplies revenues. The decrease in financing revenue is due to a decline in our leasing portfolio from reduced equipment sales in recent years. Rental, supplies and service revenues were lower than prior year due to fewer placements of new meters. Equipment sales and supplies revenue were lower than prior year due to business consolidations, lease extensions and reduced volumes of mail processed. Lease extensions have a positive impact on profit margins longer term but negatively impact equipment sales revenue in the current year. Revenue was also adversely affected by the ongoing changing mix to more fully featured smaller systems. Foreign currency translation had a 1% favorable impact on revenue. The lower EBIT was due to the decline in higher margin financing, rental and supplies revenues, which more than offset the 1% impact from a favorable adjustment related to certain leveraged lease transactions in Canada. International Mailing revenue decreased 3% to $675 million compared to the prior year, including a favorable impact from foreign currency translation of 1%. While equipment sales were up slightly in certain parts of Europe, this increase was offset by continued declines in financing and rental revenues due to reduced equipment sales in recent years. EBIT decreased 20% to $79 million compared to prior year primarily due to the lower revenue and shift to lower margin equipment and supplies sales. Enterprise Business Solutions Enterprise Business Solutions revenue was flat at $2,650 million and EBIT increased 5% to $283 million, compared to the prior year. Within the Enterprise Business Solutions group: Production Mail revenue increased 6% over the prior year to $561 million due to increased demand in the U.S. for inserting equipment and our first installations of production print equipment. Demand for inserting equipment continued to experience a delayed recovery in certain countries outside of North America as many large enterprises in these regions delayed capital expenditures due to economic uncertainty. EBIT increased 18% to $61 million compared to last year due to the higher revenue and our initiatives to improve productivity and consolidate administrative functions. Foreign currency translation had a 1% favorable impact on EBIT. Software revenue increased 5% over last year to $375 million, driven by the acquisition of Portrait Software (4%) and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (1%). We continue to build more recurring revenue streams through multi year licensing agreements, which have the effect of deferring some revenue to future periods. EBIT increased 18% over last year to $40 million due to business integration and productivity initiatives. EBIT was negatively impacted by transaction related fees of approximately $2 million associated with the Portrait acquisition. Foreign currency translation had a less than 1% favorable impact on EBIT. Management Services revenue decreased 6% compared to last year to $999 million due to the loss of several large postal contracts and decreased print volumes. Despite the lower revenues, EBIT increased 28% over the prior year to $93 million primarily due to our 17 actions to align costs with changing volumes through a more variable cost infrastructure, ongoing productivity initiatives and a focus on more profitable contracts. Foreign currency translation had a less than 1% impact on both revenue and EBIT. Mail Services revenue was flat compared to last year at $573 million, while EBIT decreased 28% to $63 million. Mail Services revenue and EBIT were adversely impacted by $21 million and $16 million, respectively, due to a one time out of period adjustment in the International Mail Services portion of the business primarily related to a correction to the rates used to estimate earned but unbilled revenue for the periods 2007 through the first quarter of 2010. The impact of this adjustment was not material on any individual quarter or year during these periods. Excluding the impact of this adjustment, revenue increased 4% over the prior year, but EBIT decreased 11%. The revenue increase was driven partially by increased volumes of presort mail and Standard Class mail processed and acquisitions (2%). The decrease in EBIT was driven by higher shipping rates charged by international carriers for our International Mail Services business, which more than offset the favorable margin impacts in our Presort business. Marketing Services revenue of $142 million was flat compared to the prior year. Revenue was impacted by increased vendor advertising for Movers Source kits offset by a decline in household moves compared to prior year. EBIT increased 14% over last year due to more profitable vendor revenue per transaction. Revenues and cost of revenues by source The following tables show revenues and costs of revenues by source for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Revenue by source 2010 2009 % change Equipment sales $ 1,023 $ 1,000 2 % Supplies 318 336 (5 )% Software 390 372 5 % Rentals 601 647 (7 )% Financing 638 694 (8 )% Support services 712 714 % Business services 1,744 1,805 (3 )% Total revenue $ 5,425 $ 5,569 (3 )% Cost of revenue by source Percentage of Revenue 2010 2009 2010 2009 Cost of equipment sales $ 469 $ 450 45.9 % 45.0 % Cost of supplies 97 94 30.5 % 27.9 % Cost of software 93 88 23.9 % 23.7 % Cost of rentals 141 159 23.6 % 24.5 % Financing interest expense 88 98 13.8 % 14.1 % Cost of support services 452 467 63.5 % 65.4 % Cost of business services 1,337 1,382 76.7 % 76.6 % Total cost of revenue $ 2,678 $ 2,738 49.4 % 49.2 % Equipment sales Equipment sales revenue increased 2% to $1,023 million compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 1%. The growth was primarily driven by higher sales of production mail equipment in the U.S. and higher equipment sales in Canada and parts of Europe. Period revenue was adversely affected by lease extensions. Cost of equipment sales as a percentage of revenue was 45.9% compared with 45.0% in the prior year, primarily due to the higher mix of lower margin production mail equipment sales, which more than offset the positive impacts of higher levels of lease extensions and ongoing productivity improvements. Supplies Supplies revenue decreased 5% to $318 million compared to the prior year due to lower supplies usage resulting from lower mail volumes and fewer installed meters due to customer consolidations worldwide. Foreign currency translation had less than a 1% favorable impact. Cost of supplies as a percentage of revenue was 30.5% compared with 27.9% in the prior year primarily due to the increasing mix of lower margin non compatible supplies sales worldwide. 18 Software Software revenue increased 5% to $390 million compared to the prior year. The acquisition of Portrait accounted for 4% of the increase and foreign currency translation accounted for 1% of the increase. Period revenue growth was also negatively impacted by the shift to recurring revenue streams through multi year licensing agreements. Cost of software as a percentage of revenue was 23.9% compared to 23.7% in the prior year. Rentals Rentals revenue decreased 7% to $601 million compared to the prior year as customers in the U.S. continue to downsize to smaller, fully featured machines. The weak economic conditions have also impacted our international rental markets, specifically in France. Foreign currency translation had less than a 1% positive impact. Cost of rentals as a percentage of revenue was 23.6% compared with 24.5% in the prior year. Rental margins have been positively impacted by lower depreciation associated with higher levels of lease extensions. Financing Financing revenue decreased 8% to $638 million compared to the prior year as lower equipment sales in previous years have resulted in a net decline in both our U.S. and international lease portfolios. Foreign currency translation had a 1% positive impact. Financing interest expense as a percentage of revenue was 13.8% compared with 14.1% in the prior year due to lower interest rates and lower average borrowings. In computing financing interest expense, we assume a 10:1 leveraging ratio of debt to equity and apply our overall effective interest rate to the average outstanding finance receivables. Support Services Support services revenue of $712 million was flat compared to the prior year. Growth has been negatively impacted by lower placements of mailing equipment, primarily in the U.S., U.K. and France. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of 1%. Cost of support services as a percentage of revenue improved to 63.5% compared with 65.4% in the prior year due to margin improvements from our ongoing productivity investments in the U.S. and International Mailing and Production Mail businesses. Business Services Business services revenue decreased 3% to $1,744 million compared to the prior year primarily due to the loss of several large postal contracts and print volumes at Management Services. Foreign currency translation had less than a 1% negative impact. Cost of business services as a percentage of revenue was 76.7% compared with 76.6% in the prior year. Positive impacts of cost reduction programs at our Management Services and Presort businesses were offset by higher shipping costs in International Mail Services. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) SG&A expenses decreased $40 million, or 2% primarily as a result of our cost reduction initiatives. Businesses acquired in 2010 increased SG&A by $15 million and foreign currency translation had a less than 1% unfavorable impact. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A expenses were 32.5% compared to 32.3% in the prior year. Research and development Research and development expenses decreased $26 million, or 14%from the prior year due to the wind down of redundant costs related to our transition to offshore development activities and the launch of the new Connect+TM mailing system. Foreign currency translation had an unfavorable impact of 1%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses were 2.9% compared to 3.3% in the prior year. Income taxes / effective tax rate The effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009 were 38.5% and 34.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2010 included $16 million of tax benefits associated with previously unrecognized deferred taxes on outside basis differences, a $15 million charge for the write off of deferred tax assets associated with the expiration of out of the money vested stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units previously granted to our employees and a $9 million charge for the write off of deferred tax assets related to the U.S. health care reform legislation that eliminated the tax deduction for retiree health care costs to the extent of federal subsidies received by companies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits equivalent to Medicare Part D coverage. The effective tax rate for 2009 included $13 million of tax charges related to the write off of deferred tax assets associated with the expiration of out of the money vested stock options and the vesting of restricted stock, offset by $13 million of tax benefits from retirement of intercompany obligations and the repricing of leveraged lease transactions. Discontinued operations See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 Preferred stock dividends of subsidiaries attributable to noncontrolling interests See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Restructuring Charges and Asset Impairments Restructuring charges and asset impairments were $148 million, $182 million and $49 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In 2009, we announced that we were undertaking a series of strategic transformation initiatives designed to transform and enhance the way we operate as a global company (the 2009 Program). The program aims to enhance our responsiveness to changing market conditions and create improved processes and systems to further enable us to invest in future growth in areas such as our global customer interactions and product development processes. Total pre tax costs for this program were approximately $385 million. At the end of 2011, the 2009 Program is substantially completed and annualized run rate net benefits of this program are projected to be approximately $300 million in 2012. We do not anticipate any further significant charges under this program. Most of the costs were cash related charges. The majority of the remaining restructuring payments are expected to be paid over the next 12 24 months. Due to certain international labor laws and long term lease agreements, some payments will extend beyond 24 months. We expect that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund these payments. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We believe that cash flow from operations, existing cash and investments, as well as borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program should be sufficient to support our business operations, interest and dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures, and to cover customer deposits. We have the ability to supplement this short term liquidity, if necessary, and fund the long term needs of our business through broad access to capital markets, a credit line facility, and our effective shelf registration statement. At December 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments on hand were $869 million. Cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries are generally used to support the liquidity needs of these subsidiaries. Most of these amounts could be repatriated to the United States but would be subject to additional taxes. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. It is our intention to permanently reinvest substantially all of these funds in our foreign operations. Cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $538 million and $166 million, respectively. We continuously review our liquidity profile through published credit ratings and the credit default swap market. We monitor the creditworthiness of those banks acting as derivative counterparties, depository banks or credit providers. There has not been a material variation in the underlying sources of cash flows currently used to finance the operations of the Company. To date, we have had consistent access to the commercial paper market. Cash Flow Summary The change in cash and cash equivalents is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 920 $ 952 $ 824 Net cash used in investing activities (89 ) (301 ) (172 ) Net cash used in financing activities (455 ) (580 ) (626 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (5 ) 1 10 Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 372 $ 72 $ 36 2011 Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net income adjusted for non cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. A decrease in finance receivables contributed $190 million of cash as cash collections exceeded the financing of new business and a decrease in accounts receivables contributed $59 million in cash primarily due to improved cash collections in excess of new billings. The decrease in current and non current income taxes of $258 million includes the tax benefits recognized in connection with the 2001 2008 IRS tax settlements. Cash flow from operations also includes a special contribution to our U.S. pension plan of $123 million and restructuring payments of $107 million. Net cash used in investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $156 million for property, plant and equipment and rental equipment and related inventories and the net purchase of investment securities of $68 million partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of non U.S. leveraged lease assets of $102 million. 20 Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of dividends paid to common stockholders of $300 million, a net decrease in commercial paper borrowings of $50 million and the repurchase of $100 million of our common stock. 2010 Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities included $180 million and $43 million from decreases in finance receivables and accounts receivables, respectively. Finance receivables declined as strong cash collections exceed the financing of new business and equipment sales have declined. Accounts receivables declined primarily due to strong cash collections in excess of new billings. Cash flow also benefited from the proceeds of $32 million from the unwinding of interest rate swaps and by $29 million due to the timing of payments of accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Partially offsetting these benefits were restructuring payments of $120 million and an increase in inventory of $12 million. Net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of the net purchase of investment securities of $122 million, capital expenditures of $120 million for property, plant and equipment and rental equipment and related inventories and acquisitions of $78 million. Net cash used in financing activities primarily included a net decrease in commercial paper borrowings of $171 million, stock repurchases of $100 million and dividends paid to common stockholders of $302 million. 2009 Cash Flows Net cash flow provided by operating activities included $207 million and $84 million from decreases in finance receivables and accounts receivables, respectively, primarily due to lower sales volumes, and an increase in current and non current income taxes of $80 million due to the timing of tax payments. These cash inflows were partially offset by a reduction in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $127 million, primarily due to timing of payments, voluntary pension plan contributions of $125 million and restructuring payments of $105 million. Net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $167 million for property, plant and equipment and rental equipment and related inventories. Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of dividends paid to common stockholders of $298 million, a net reduction in debt of $242 million, and a net cash outflow associated with the issuance and redemption of preferred stock issued by a subsidiary of $79 million. Financings and Capitalization We are a Well Known Seasoned Issuer with the SEC, which allows us to issue debt securities, preferred stock, preference stock, common stock, purchase contracts, depositary shares, warrants and units in an expedited fashion. We have a commercial paper program that is an important source of liquidity for us and a committed line of credit of $1.25 billion to support our commercial paper issuances. The line of credit expires in 2013. We have not experienced any problems to date in accessing the commercial paper market. As of December 31, 2011, we have not drawn upon the line of credit. During the year, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional value of $450 million to effectively convert the fixed rate interest payments on our $450 million 4.875% notes due in 2014 into variable rates. Under the terms of these agreements, we pay a weighted average variable rate based on three month LIBOR plus 305 basis points and receive fixed rate payments of 4.875%. In 2010, we unwound two interest rate swaps that effectively converted the fixed rate payments on the $250 million 5.6% notes due in 2018 into variable rates, and received $32 million, excluding accrued interest. This amount is being recognized as a reduction in interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. The transaction was not undertaken for liquidity purposes, but rather to fix our effective interest rate at 3.7% for the remaining term of the notes. During the fourth quarter of 2012, $550 million of long term debt is scheduled to mature. We are currently evaluating available options, including using available cash to repay some of this debt. We may also refinance some or all of this amount with short term borrowings under our commercial paper program or through the issuance of long term debt. At December 31, 2011, there was no outstanding commercial paper. During the year, commercial paper borrowings averaged $138 million at a weighted average interest rate of 0.22% and the maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding at any point in time was $450 million. In 2010, commercial paper borrowings averaged $347 million at a weighted average interest rate of 0.23% and the maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding at any point in time was $552 million. In January 2012, we contributed $85 million to our U.S. pension plan and $10 million to our foreign pension plans. We anticipate making additional contributions of approximately $15 million and $20 million to our U.S. and foreign pension plans, respectively during 2012. We will reassess our funding alternatives as the year progresses. In February 2012, we signed an agreement to sell certain leveraged lease assets to the lessee for $105 million. We expect to recognize an after tax gain, which will be finalized in the first quarter of 2012. 21 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following summarizes our known contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2011 and the effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods: Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt $ 4,175 $ 550 $ 825 $ 900 $ 1,900 Interest payments on debt (1) 1,392 189 330 239 634 Non cancelable operating lease obligations 259 92 103 42 22 Capital lease obligations 6 3 3 Purchase obligations (2) 271 197 64 10 Other non current liabilities (3) 738 120 50 568 Total $ 6,841 $ 1,031 $ 1,445 $ 1,241 $ 3,124 The amount and period of future payments related to our income tax uncertainties cannot be reliably estimated and are not included in the above table. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. (1) Interest payments on debt includes interest on our $500 million 5.25% notes due in 2037. This note contains an option that gives bondholders the right to redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at par plus accrued interest, in January 2017. If all $500 million of the notes are redeemed, interest payments in the more than five years column would be $525 million lower than the amount shown in the table above. (2) Purchase obligations include unrecorded agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding upon us and that specify all significant terms including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. (3) Other non current liabilities relate primarily to our postretirement benefits. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and accompanying disclosures, including the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current events, historical experience, and other information available when the financial statements are prepared. The accounting policies below have been identified by management as those accounting policies that are critical to our business operations and to the understanding of our results of operations. Management believes that the estimates and assumptions used in the accounting policies below are reasonable and appropriate based on the information available at the time the financial statements were prepared; however, actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our accounting policies. Revenue recognition Multiple element and internal financing arrangements We derive our revenue from multiple sources including sales, rentals, financing and services. Certain of our transactions are consummated at the same time and can therefore generate revenue from multiple sources. The most common form of these transactions involves a sale or non cancelable lease of equipment, a meter rental and an equipment maintenance agreement. As a result, we are required to determine whether the deliverables in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and if so, how the price should be allocated among the delivered elements and when to recognize revenue for each element. In multiple element arrangements, revenue is recognized for each of the elements based on their respective fair values. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when the fair values of undelivered elements are known and uncertainties regarding customer acceptance are resolved. The allocation of fair values to the various elements does not change the total revenue recognized from a transaction, but impacts the timing of revenue recognition. Revenue is allocated to the meter rental and equipment maintenance agreement elements using their respective fair values, which are determined based on prices charged in standalone and renewal 22 transactions. For a sale transaction, revenue is allocated to the equipment based on a range of selling prices in standalone transactions. For a lease transaction, revenue is allocated to the equipment based on the present value of the remaining minimum lease payments. We then compare the allocated equipment fair value to the range of selling prices in standalone transactions during the period to ensure the allocated equipment fair value approximates average selling prices. We provide lease financing for our products primarily through sales type leases. The vast majority of our leases qualify as sales type leases using the present value of minimum lease payments classification criteria. We believe that our sales type lease portfolio contains only normal collection risk. Accordingly, we record the fair value of equipment as sales revenue, the cost of equipment as cost of sales and the minimum lease payments plus the estimated residual value as finance receivables. The difference between the finance receivable and the equipment fair value is recorded as unearned income and is amortized as income over the lease term using the interest method. Equipment residual values are determined at inception of the lease using estimates of equipment fair value at the end of the lease term. Estimates of future equipment fair value are based primarily on our historical experience. We also consider forecasted supply and demand for our various products, product retirement and future product launch plans, end of lease customer behavior, regulatory changes, remanufacturing strategies, used equipment markets, if any, competition and technological changes. We evaluate residual values on an annual basis or as changes to the above considerations occur. Allowances for doubtful accounts and credit losses Allowance for doubtful accounts We estimate our accounts receivable risks and provide allowances for doubtful accounts accordingly. We believe that our credit risk for accounts receivable is limited because of our large number of customers, small account balances for most of our customers and customer geographic and industry diversification. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical loss experience, length of time receivables are past due, adverse situations that may affect a customers ability to pay and prevailing economic conditions, and make adjustments to the reserves as necessary. This evaluation is inherently subjective and actual results may differ significantly from estimated reserves. Allowance for credit losses We estimate our finance receivable risks and provide allowances for credit losses accordingly. We establish credit approval limits based on the credit quality of the customer and the type of equipment financed. We believe that our concentration of credit risk for finance receivables is limited because of our large number of customers, small account balances for most of our customers and customer geographic and industry diversification. Our policy is to discontinue revenue recognition for lease receivables that are more than 120 days past due and for unsecured loan receivables that are more than 90 days past due. We resume revenue recognition when payments reduce the account to 60 days or less past due. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses based on historical loss experience, the nature and volume of our portfolios, adverse situations that may affect a customers ability to pay and prevailing economic conditions, and make adjustments to the reserves as necessary. This evaluation is inherently subjective and actual results may differ significantly from estimated reserves. Accounting for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, tax reserve changes and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We regularly assess the likelihood of tax adjustments in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we have operations and account for the related financial statement implications. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be appropriate given the possibility of tax adjustments. Determining the appropriate level of tax reserves requires us to exercise judgment regarding the uncertain application of tax laws. The amount of reserves is adjusted when information becomes available or when an event occurs indicating a change in the reserve is appropriate. Future changes in tax reserve requirements could have a material impact on our results of operations. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. As new information becomes available that would alter our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that will ultimately be realized, we adjust the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Useful lives of long lived assets We depreciate property, plant and equipment and rental property and equipment principally using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of up to 50 years for buildings, three to 15 years for machinery and equipment, four to six years for rental equipment and three to five years for computer equipment. We amortize properties leased under capital leases on a straight line basis 23 over the primary lease term. We amortize capitalized costs related to internally developed software using the straight line method over the estimated useful life, which is principally three to 10 years. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the straight line method or an accelerated attrition method over their estimated useful lives, which are principally three to 15 years. Our estimates of useful lives could be affected by changes in regulatory provisions, technology or business plans. Changes to the assets estimated useful lives could have a material impact on our results of operations. Impairment review Long lived and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. If such a change in circumstances occurs, the related estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is compared to the carrying amount. We derive the cash flow estimates from our future long term business plans and historical experience. If the sum of the expected cash flows is less than the carrying amount, an impairment charge is recorded. The impairment charge is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the asset. The fair value of the impaired asset is determined using probability weighted expected discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and appraisals, as appropriate. Changes in the estimates and assumptions incorporated in our impairment assessment could materially affect the determination of fair value and the associated impairment charge. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, during the fourth quarter, or sooner when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist at the reporting unit level. The impairment test for goodwill is a two step approach. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the reporting units carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. In the second step, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if it had been acquired in a business combination and the purchase price was equivalent to the fair value of the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is referred to as the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is then compared to the actual carrying value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Significant estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment review include the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is determined based on a combination of techniques, including the present value of future cash flows, applicable multiples of competitors and multiples from sales of like businesses, and requires us to make estimates and assumptions regarding discount rates, growth rates, and our future long term business plans. Changes in any of these estimates or assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and the associated goodwill impairment charge for each reporting unit. Due to continuing underperformance of our IMS operations and based on information that was received during the early stages of our annual budgeting and long term planning process started in the third quarter, management concluded that it was appropriate to perform a goodwill impairment review for IMS. We determined the fair value of IMS using a combination of techniques including the present value of future cash flows, multiples of competitors and multiples from sales of like businesses, and determined that the IMS reporting unit was impaired. We performed step two of the goodwill impairment test and determined that the implied fair value of goodwill for IMS was less than its carrying value and a goodwill impairment charge of $46 million was recognized. Our analysis indicated that certain identifiable intangible assets of IMS were also impaired and an impairment charge of $12 million was recognized. At December 31, 2011, the remaining carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill for IMS was $5 million and $18 million, respectively. Based on the results of our annual goodwill impairment review process, we determined that our PBMSi operations were impaired. Similar to IMS, the fair value of PBMSi was determined using a combination of techniques including the present value of future cash flows, derived from our long term plans and historical experience, multiples of competitors and multiples from sales of like businesses and the estimated fair value was allocated to the assets and liabilities of PBMSi. Our analysis showed that the implied fair value of goodwill for PBMSi was less than its carrying value and a goodwill impairment charge of $84 million was recognized. In addition, the impairment review indicated that certain identifiable intangible assets were also impaired and an impairment charge of $5 million was recognized. At December 31, 2011, there are no intangible assets carried on PBMSi and the remaining carrying value of goodwill is $39 million. Further, based on the results of our annual impairment review, the estimated fair values of our other reporting units were considered substantially in excess of their respective carrying values, except for the U.S. operations of our Management Services segment (PBMS US). The estimated fair value of PBMS US exceeded its carrying value by approximately 13%. At December 31, 2011, the net identifiable intangible assets of PBMS US were $14 million and goodwill allocated to PBMS US was $364 million. As noted in the Outlook section above, the worldwide economy and business environment continue to be uncertain and impact our current and expected future financial performance, and as a result have increased the possibility of future non cash impairment 24 charges for goodwill and or identifiable intangible assets. Accordingly, we will continue to monitor and evaluate the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets for all our reporting units. Business combinations We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. The fair value of intangible assets is estimated using a cost, market or income approach. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Stock based compensation expense We recognize compensation cost for stock based expense based on the estimated fair value of the award, net of an estimated forfeiture rate. We recognize compensation costs for those shares expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period. We estimate the fair value of stock options using a Black Scholes valuation model. The use of this valuation model requires assumptions be made regarding the expected stock price volatility, risk free interest rate, expected life of the award and dividend yield. The estimate of stock price volatility is based on historical price changes of our stock. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. treasuries with a term equal to the expected option term. The expected life, or holding period, of the award, and the expected dividend yield, is based on historical experience. We believe that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair value of our stock based awards. If factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock based compensation expense could be different in the future. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, the stock based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. Restructuring We have undertaken restructuring actions which require management to utilize certain estimates related to the amount and timing of expenses. If the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be impacted. Pension benefits Assumptions and estimates The valuation and calculation of our net pension expense, assets and obligations are dependent on assumptions and estimates relating to discount rate, rate of compensation increase and expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are evaluated and updated annually and are described in further detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average assumptions for our largest plan, the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan, and our largest foreign plan, the U.K. Qualified Pension Plan, used to determine net periodic pension costs for 2012 are as follows: U.S. Plan U.K. Plan Discount rate 4.95 % 4.95 % Rate of compensation increase 3.50 % 3.40 % Expected return on plan assets 7.75 % 7.25 % U.S. Plan The discount rate for our U.S pension plan is determined by matching the expected cash flows associated with our benefit obligations to a yield curve based on long term, high quality fixed income debt instruments available as of the measurement date. The rate of compensation increase assumption reflects our actual experience and best estimate of future increases. Our expected return on plan assets is based on historical and projected rates of return for current and planned asset classes in the plans investment portfolio after analyzing historical experience and future expectations of the returns and volatility of the various asset classes. The overall expected rate of return for the portfolio is determined based on the target asset allocations for each asset class, adjusted for historical and expected experience of active portfolio management results, when compared to the benchmark returns. When assessing the expected future returns for the portfolio, we place more emphasis on the expected future returns than historical returns. 25 U.K. Plan We determine our discount rate for the U.K. retirement benefit plan by using a model that discounts each years estimated benefit payments by an applicable spot rate. These spot rates are derived from a yield curve created from a large number of high quality corporate bonds. The rate of compensation increase assumption reflects our actual experience and best estimate of future increases. Our expected return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results, the plans asset mix and future expectations of market rates of return on the types of assets in the plan. Changes to the above assumptions can have an impact on annual pension expense and recorded pension liabilities. For instance: a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would decrease annual pension expense by approximately $2 million for both the U.S. and U.K. pension plans, and lower the projected benefit obligation of the U.S. and U.K. pension plans by $38 million and $18 million, respectively; a 0.25% increase in the rate of compensation increase would increase annual pension expense by less than $1 million for both the U.S. and U.K. pension plans; a 0.25% increase in the expected return on assets would decrease annual pension expense for the U.S. and U.K. pension plans by approximately $4 million and $1 million, respectively. Delayed recognition principles Actual pension plan results that differ from our assumptions and estimates are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future working life of the plan participants and affect future pension expense. Net pension expense is also based on a market related valuation of plan assets where differences between the actual and expected return on plan assets are amortized to pension expense over a five year period. Investment related risks and uncertainties We invest our pension plan assets in a variety of investment securities in accordance with our strategic asset allocation policy. The composition of our U.S. pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 was approximately 34% equity securities, 56% fixed income securities and 10% real estate and private equity investments. The composition of our U.K. pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 was approximately 62% equity securities, 32% fixed income securities and 6% cash. Investment securities are exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market and credit risks. In particular, due to the level of risk associated with investment securities, it is reasonably possible that change in the value of such investment securities will occur and that such change could materially affect our future results. New Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2011, new accounting guidance became effective addressing the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple elements and certain revenue arrangements that include software. This guidance allows companies to allocate consideration in a multiple element arrangement in a way that better reflects the economics of the transaction and results in the elimination of the residual method. In addition, tangible products that have software components that are essential to the functionality of the tangible product were scoped out of the software revenue guidance. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2011, new guidance was introduced that would eliminate the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of stockholders equity, and require an entity to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. This guidance would be effective in the first quarter of 2012, with early adoption permitted. We have elected to early adopt this guidance effective December 31, 2011 and have presented the components of other comprehensive income in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The adoption of this guidance only changed the way we present other comprehensive income and its components, and did not impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Legal and Regulatory Matters Legal See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this Form 10 K for information regarding our legal proceedings. Other regulatory matters As is the case with other large corporations, we are continually under examination by tax authorities in the United States, other countries and local jurisdictions in which we have operations. The years under examination vary by jurisdiction. Except for a dispute 26 arising out of a partnership investment, the IRS examination of tax years 2001 2004 is closed to audit and the examination of years 2005 2008 is estimated to be closed to audit within the next 12 months. We have other domestic and international tax filings currently under examination or subject to examination. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be appropriate given the possibility of tax adjustments. However, the resolution of such matters could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are currently undergoing unclaimed property audits, which are being conducted by various state authorities. The property subject to review in this audit process generally includes unclaimed wages, vendor payments and customer receipts. State escheat laws generally require entities to report and remit abandoned and unclaimed property. Failure to timely report and remit the property can result in the assessments of additional escheat liability, interest and penalties. It is too early to determine the ultimate outcome of such audits. Effects of Inflation and Foreign Exchange Inflation Inflation, although minimal in recent years, continues to affect worldwide economies and the way companies operate. It increases labor costs and operating expenses, and raises costs associated with replacement of fixed assets such as rental equipment. Despite these growing costs, we have generally been able to maintain profit margins through productivity and efficiency improvements, introduction of new products and expense reductions. Foreign Exchange During 2011, 32% of our revenue was derived from operations outside of the United States. Currency translation increased our 2011 revenue by 2%. Based on the current contribution from our international operations, a 1% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar would result in a decline in revenue of approximately $17 million. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of countries in which we operate impact our reported assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Exchange rate fluctuations can also impact the settlement of intercompany receivables and payables between our subsidiaries in different countries. Our largest foreign currency exposure is to fluctuations in the British pound, Euro and Canadian dollar, and to a lesser extent, the Australian dollar. We use foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into foreign exchange contracts with only those financial institutions that meet stringent credit requirements as set forth in our derivative policy to mitigate our exposure to counterparty credit risk. We regularly review our credit exposure balances as well as the creditworthiness of our counterparties. Maximum risk of loss on these contracts is limited to the amount of the difference between the spot rate at the date of the contract delivery and the contracted rate. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our outstanding foreign exchange contracts was a net asset of $3 million. During 2011, deferred translation losses of $54 million were recorded primarily from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar as compared to the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. In 2010, deferred translation losses of $16 million were recorded primarily resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar as compared to the British pound and Euro, partially offset by a weakening of the U.S. dollar as compared to the Canadian dollar. Net deferred translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders deficit in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and do not affect earnings. Dividends It is a general practice of our Board of Directors to approve the payment of a cash dividend on our common stock each quarter. In setting dividend payments, our board considers the dividend rate in relation to our recent and projected earnings and our capital investment opportunities and requirements. We have paid a dividend each year since 1934. 27 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations due to our investing and funding activities and our operations denominated in different foreign currencies. Our objective in managing our exposure to changing interest rates is to limit the volatility and impact of changing interest rates on earnings and cash flows. To achieve these objectives, we use a balanced mix of debt maturities and interest rate swaps that convert the fixed rate interest payments on certain debt issuances to variable rates. Our objective in managing our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce the volatility in earnings and cash flows associated with the effect of foreign exchange rate changes on transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we enter into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to protect the value of external and intercompany transactions. The principal currencies actively hedged are the British pound, Canadian dollar and Euro. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. We do not enter into foreign currency or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the related exposures. We utilize a Value at Risk (VaR) model to determine the potential loss in fair value from changes in market conditions. The VaR model utilizes a variance/co variance approach and assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence level and a one day holding period. The model includes all of our debt and all interest rate derivative contracts as well as our foreign exchange derivative contracts associated with forecasted transactions. The model excludes anticipated transactions, firm commitments, and receivables and accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge. The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by us, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors. During 2011 and 2010, our maximum potential one day loss in fair value of our exposure to foreign exchange rates and interest rates, using the variance/co variance technique described above, was not material. 
 
