FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20031106085606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 6, 2003 CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 001-11001 06-0619596 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 3 High Ridge Park Stamford, Connecticut 06905 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (203) 614-5600 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) No Change Since Last Report --------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition ----------------------------------------------------------- On November 6, 2003, Citizens Communications Company issued a press release. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3. The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY (Registrant) By: /s/ Jerry Elliott -------------------------------- Jerry Elliott Chief Financial Officer Date: November 6, 2003
Exhibit 99.3 Citizens Communications 3 High Ridge Park Stamford, CT 06905 203.614.5600 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contacts: Brigid M. Smith Michael A. Zarrella Assistant Vice President Vice President Corporate Communications Corporate Development 203.614.5042 203.614.5179 bsmith@czn.com mzarrell@czn.com - -------------- ---------------- Citizens Communications Reports 2003 Third-Quarter Results Stamford, Conn., November 6, 2003 -- Citizens Communications (NYSE:CZN) today reported third quarter 2003 consolidated revenues of $595 million; consolidated operating income of $133.2 million; and consolidated net income of $11.4 million, or 4 cents per share. Consolidated net income for the quarter includes a loss of $16.8 million associated with the sale of the company's utility divisions, $10.9 million of costs associated with the early retirement of debt and a $4 million impairment charge related to the Vermont Electric division. Excluding these items and their tax effect, consolidated net income was $32.2 million, or 11 cents per share. The company produced free cash flow of $106.9 million for the third quarter 2003 and achieved a ratio of net debt to annualized cash generated by operations of 3.3x and a ratio of net debt to annualized operating income of 7.1x. The company retired $267.4 million of debt during the quarter and ended the quarter with $597.1 million in cash. The company has produced $365.6 million of free cash flow and has retired $622.4 million of debt during 2003. Telecommunications Third quarter 2003 revenue from the company's ILEC operations was $511.6 million, down $8.2 million or 1.6 percent from $519.8 million in the third quarter of 2002. The decrease is due primarily to loss of access lines, the sale of our North Dakota exchanges and reduced network access and long distance revenues. These decreases were partially offset by continued increases in enhanced service and data revenues. The company added a record 13,400 DSL customers during the quarter and had more than 105,000 DSL subscribers at September 30, 2003. The company's primary access line count, which does not take into account DSL subscriptions, decreased 14,600 lines during the quarter. Taking into account DSL subscriptions, total subscriptions decreased 1,200 for the quarter. ILEC operating income for the third quarter of 2003 was $133.8 million and operating income margin was 26.2 percent, compared to ILEC operating income of $131.2 million and operating income margin of 25.2 percent in the third quarter of 2002.
ILEC cash generated by operations for the third quarter of 2003 was $280 million. ILEC cash generated by operations margin for the third quarter of 2003 was 54.7 percent, compared to 53.9 percent in the third quarter of 2002. Capital expenditures for the ILEC were $67 million for the third quarter 2003. Third quarter 2003 revenue from Electric Lightwave totaled $40.4 million, operating income was $3.8 million, cash generated by operations was $9.4 million and capital expenditures were $3.1 million. Public Service The gas and electric segments accounted for $43 million of third quarter 2003 consolidated revenue, a $4.4 million operating loss, and $5.9 million of capital expenditures. The sale of the Company's Arizona and Hawaii utility businesses for an aggregate of $343.4 million was completed during the third quarter. The company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating its performance. These include cash generated by operations, cash generated by operations margin, net income excluding certain items, free cash flow and the ratio of net debt to annualized cash generated by operations. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included in the tables that follow. The non-GAAP financial measures are by definition not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and are not alternatives to operating income or net income reflected in the statement of operations or to cash flow as reflected in the statement of cash flows and are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Cash generated by operations is operating income plus (i) depreciation and amortization, (ii) reserve for certain telecom bankruptcies (Global Crossing, WorldCom and Touch America), (iii) restructuring and other expenses (primarily the write-off of software costs and severance costs and expenses), (iv) loss on impairment charges and (v) restricted stock related compensation expense. Cash generated by operations margin is cash generated by operations divided by revenue. Net income excluding certain items is net income without taking into account the items described in the first paragraph. Free cash flow is operating income plus depreciation and amortization, loss on impairment charges and restricted stock related compensation minus capital expenditures, interest expense and cash taxes. Net debt to annualized cash generated by operations is the ratio of (i) total debt (excluding equity units and convertible preferred) net of cash and cash equivalents to (ii) cash generated by operations for the period indicated multiplied by four (for a quarter) or by one and one-third (for a nine month period).
The company believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors because it (i) reflects management's view of core operations and cash flow generation upon which management bases financial, operational, compensation and planning decisions, (ii) presents measurements that investors and rating agencies have indicated to management are important in assessing the company and (iii) is indicative of the company's actual performance compared to the covenant limiting the ratio of net debt to cash generated by operations contained in certain of its debt agreements. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to plan and measure the performance of its core operations and its divisions measure performance and report to management based upon these measures. In addition, the company believes that free cash flow, as the company defines it, can assist in comparing performance from period to period, without taking into account factors affecting cash flow reflected in the statement of cash flows, including changes in working capital and the timing of purchases and payments. While the company utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures in managing and analyzing its business and financial condition and believes they are useful to management and to investors for the reasons described above, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain shortcomings. In particular, cash generated by operations and net income excluding certain items do not take into account the items described above, some of which will recur in future periods, in order to focus on core operations. In addition, free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since items such as debt repayments are not deducted from such measure. Management compensates for the shortcomings of these measures by utilizing them in conjunction with their comparable GAAP financial measures. In addition, annualized cash generated by operations and annualized operating income present quarterly or nine month information for purposes of ratio analysis as annualized information, without representing in any way a forecast, projection or estimate of cash generated by operations or operating income for future periods. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes contained in our documents to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. About Citizens Communications More information about Citizens can be found at www.czn.net. This document contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. These and all forward-looking statements (including oral representations) are only predictions or statements of current plans that are constantly under review by the company. All forward-looking statements may differ from actual results. The foregoing information should be read in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. The company does not intend to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of future events or circumstances.
(1) Our Kauai Electric operations were sold on November 1, 2002. In addition, The Gas Company in Hawaii division was sold on August 8, 2003, and our Arizona gas and electric divisions were sold on August 11, 2003. The sales of these properties affects the comparability of data presented. (2) Our gas and electric operations are reported as "held for sale." Accordingly, we ceased to record depreciation expense effective October 1, 2000 and January 1, 2001, respectively. (3) See footnote (4) on first page.
(1) See Schedule B. (2) As reported in the Company's financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. (3) Annualized cash generated by operations and annualized operating income present quarterly or nine month information for purposes of ratio analysis as annualized information by multiplying the quarterly information by four and nine month information by one and one third, without representing in any way a forecast, projection or estimate of cash generated by operations or operating income for future periods.


