FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20061107083115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) Of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 7, 2006 Citizens Communications Company - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 001-11001 06-0619596 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 3 High Ridge Park, Stamford, Connecticut 06905 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (203) 614-5600 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |X| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) | | Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition --------------------------------------------- On November 7, 2006, the Company issued a press release. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits --------------------------------- (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release of Citizens Communications Company released November 7, 2006.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY Date: November 7, 2006 By: /s/ Donald R. Shassian ----------------------------- Donald R. Shassian Chief Financial Officer

Exhibit 99.1 Citizens Communications 3 High Ridge Park Stamford, CT 06905 203.614.5600 Web site: www.czn.net FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Contact: Brigid Smith 203.614.5042 bsmith@czn.com Citizens Communications Reports 2006 Third-Quarter Results Stamford, Conn., November 7, 2006 -- Citizens Communications (NYSE:CZN) today reported third quarter 2006 revenues of $507.2 million, operating income of $160.7 million, and net income of $128.5 million. The sale of Electric Lightwave, LLC (ELI) for $247.0 million (including $243.0 million in cash) closed on July 31, 2006. Excluding the after-tax gain on the sale, net income would have been $56.4 million. Third quarter 2006 revenue was $507.2 million, as compared to $501.2 million in the third quarter of 2005. We experienced growth in the third quarter of 2006 in data and internet services revenue, higher access service revenues (which include subsidy payments we receive from federal and state agencies) and, to a lesser extent, enhanced services/features revenues. Third quarter 2006 data and internet services revenue increased 29.7 percent compared to the third quarter of 2005. Revenues were negatively impacted in the third quarter of 2006 as compared to 2005 by a decline in local, long distance and equipment sales. In the third quarter of 2005, a missed filing deadline with the Universal Service Fund (USF) resulted in the postponement of the recognition of approximately $10.0 million of subsidy revenue until the fourth quarter of 2005. Other operating expenses decreased by approximately $8.0 million or 4.2 percent, as compared to the third quarter of 2005 primarily driven by reductions in salaries and benefits, which included a $3.0 million accrual for severance in 2005 and improved expense control in benefit costs. Depreciation and amortization expense for the third quarter of 2006 decreased $11.9 million or 9.2 percent as compared to the third quarter of 2005. The decrease is due to a declining asset base and changes in the projected useful lives of certain assets as determined by an independent study prepared last year. The company added approximately 12,300 high-speed internet customers during the quarter and had more than 362,000 high-speed data subscribers at September 30, 2006. The number of the company's high-speed internet subscribers has increased by more than 72,000 or 25.0 percent since September 30, 2005. Operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $160.7 million and operating income margin was 31.7 percent, compared to $136.9 million and 27.3 percent in the third quarter of 2005. Capital expenditures were $65.1 million for the third quarter of 2006 and $163.4 million for the first nine months of 2006. --MORE --
Free cash flow for the third quarter increased 3.0 percent to $127.6 million compared to the third quarter of 2005. The company's dividend represents a payout of 56.6 percent of free cash flow for the first nine months of 2006. The company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating its performance. These include free cash flow. A reconciliation of the differences between free cash flow and the most comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included in the tables that follow. The non-GAAP financial measures are by definition not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and are not alternatives to operating income or net income reflected in the statement of operations or to cash flow as reflected in the statement of cash flows and are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. The company believes that presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the company's financial condition and results of operations because these measures, when used in conjunction with related GAAP financial measures, (i) together provide a more comprehensive view of the company's core operations and ability to generate cash flow, (ii) provide investors with the financial analytical framework upon which management bases financial, operational, compensation and planning decisions, and (iii) presents measurements that investors and rating agencies have indicated to management are useful to them in assessing the company and its results of operations. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to plan and measure the performance of its core operations and its divisions' measure performance and report to management based upon these measures. In addition, the company believes that free cash flow, as the company defines it, can assist in comparing performance from period to period, without taking into account factors affecting cash flow reflected in the statement of cash flows, including changes in working capital and the timing of purchases and payments. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to (i) assist in analyzing the company's underlying financial performance from period to period, (ii) evaluate the financial performance of its business units, (iii) analyze and evaluate strategic and operational decisions, (iv) establish criteria for compensation decisions, and (v) assist management in understanding the company's ability to generate cash flow and, as a result, to plan for future capital and operational decisions. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with related GAAP financial measures. The company believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are meaningful and useful for the reasons outlined above. While the company utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures in managing and analyzing its business and financial condition and believes they are useful to management and to investors for the reasons described above, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain shortcomings. In particular, free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since items such as debt repayments and dividends are not deducted from such measure. Management compensates for the shortcomings of these measures by utilizing them in conjunction with their comparable GAAP financial measures. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes contained in our documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. --MORE --
About Citizens Communications More information about Citizens can be found at www.czn.net. This press release contains forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance. Words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements (including oral representations) involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. These risks and uncertainties are based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: our ability to complete the acquisition of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc., to successfully integrate their operations and to realize the synergies from the acquisition; our ability to refinance the bridge loan that will be used to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration with long-term debt; our ability to effectively manage our operations, costs and capital spending; our ability to successfully introduce new product offerings, including bundled service packages; our ability to sell enhanced services; our ability to comply with federal and state regulations; changes in the number of our revenue generating units; general and local economic and employment conditions; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry; overall changes in the telecommunications market; and greater than anticipated competition from wireless or wireline carriers. These and other uncertainties related to our business are described in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and the foregoing information should be read in conjunction with these filings. We do not intend to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of future events or circumstances. Additional Information and Where to Find It This material is not a substitute for the prospectus/proxy statement Citizens Communications Company and Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors are urged to read the prospectus/proxy statement, which will contain important information, including detailed risk factors, when it becomes available. The prospectus/proxy statement and other documents that will be filed by Citizens Communications Company and Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission will be available free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, or by directing a request when such a filing is made to Citizens Communications Company, 3 High Ridge Park, Stamford, CT 06905, Attention: Investor Relations; or to Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc., 100 CTE Drive, Dallas, Pennsylvania 18612, Attention: Investor Relations. The final prospectus/proxy statement will be mailed to shareholders of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Citizens Communications Company and Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc., and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other members of management and employees are participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transactions. Information about the directors and executive officers of Citizens Communications Company is set forth in the proxy statement for Citizens Communications Company's 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. Information about the directors and executive officers of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. is set forth in the proxy statement for Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc.'s 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants in the proposed transactions by reading the prospectus/proxy statement for such proposed transactions when it becomes available. ### TABLES TO FOLLOW
(1) In February 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell Electric Lightwave, LLC (ELI), our competitive local exchange carrier business. ELI was sold on July 31, 2006. Additionally, our conferencing business was sold on March 15, 2005. Prior periods have been restated to present ELI and our conferencing business as discontinued operations and to reflect the consolidation of Mohave Cellular Limited Partnership in accordance with EITF No. 04-5. (2) For the period ended September 30, 2006, income from discontinued operations includes ELI's after-tax gain of approximately $72.1 million. (3) Calculated based on weighted average shares outstanding. (4) A reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented at the end of these tables.
(1) See footnote (1) on the first page. (2) For the period ended September 30, 2005, access services did not include approximately $10.0 million of USF subsidy revenue due to a late filing. (3) RGUs are access lines plus high-speed internet subscribers.
(1) See footnote (1) on the first page.


