FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20070319090033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On March 19, 2007, Citizens Communications Company (the "") issued a press release announcing that it has commenced a private offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which it expects will consist of a series due in 2015 and a series due in 2019, pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 (the ""). The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Company
Securities Act
As part of the offering materials prepared in connection with this private offering, the Company has disclosed certain preliminary unaudited pro forma financial information relating to the Company's acquisition of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc., which was completed on March 8, 2007. A copy of the preliminary unaudited pro forma financial information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
 
The information set forth in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Don Armour
203.614.5124
darmour@czn.com
Citizens Communications Company (NYSE: CZN) announced today that it has commenced a private offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which it expects will consist of a series due in 2015 and a series due in 2019. Citizens intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to refinance $200 million principal amount of indebtedness incurred on March 8, 2007 under a bridge loan facility in connection with the acquisition of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and to redeem, repurchase or otherwise retire for value $495.2 million principal amount of Citizens' 7.625% Senior Notes due 2008. Any remaining net proceeds will be used to pay integration costs and settle liabilities associated with the acquisition of Commonwealth.
STAMFORD, Conn., March 19, 2007 
The notes will be senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The notes will be offered in the United States to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy the notes or any other securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which, or to any persons to whom, such an offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. Any offers of the notes will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum. This announcement is being issued pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 135c under the Securities Act.
About Citizens Communications Company
Citizens Communications Company (NYSE: CZN) is a full-service communications provider and one of the largest local exchange telephone companies in the country. Under the Frontier brand name, the company offers telephone, television and Internet services, as well as wireless data, bundled offerings, ESPN360 streaming video, residential security solutions and specialized bundles for small businesses and home offices.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance. Words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements (including oral representations) involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. These risks and uncertainties are based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: our ability to successfully integrate the operations of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and to realize the synergies from the acquisition; changes in the number of our revenue generating units; greater than anticipated competition from wireless or wireline carriers; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry; our ability to successfully introduce new product offerings, including bundled service packages; our ability to sell enhanced services; our ability to comply with federal and state regulations; our ability to effectively manage our operations, costs and
capital spending; our ability to successfully renegotiate expiring union contracts; overall changes in the telecommunications market and general and local economic and employment conditions. These and other uncertainties related to our business are described in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and the foregoing information should be read in conjunction with these filings. We do not intend to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of future events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is based upon the historical consolidated financial information of Citizens Communications Company ("Citizens") and Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. ("Commonwealth"), and has been prepared to reflect Citizens' acquisition of Commonwealth on March 8, 2007 (the "Merger") based on the purchase method of accounting, with Citizens treated as the acquirer. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable to the Merger and factually supportable and, in the case of the statement of operations information, that are expected to have a continuing impact. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet information has been prepared as of December 31, 2006 and gives effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations information has been prepared for the year ended December 31, 2006 and gives effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the Merger been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of Citizens after completion of the Merger.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any potential cost savings or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Merger. In addition, Citizens' cost to acquire Commonwealth will be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition. The allocation is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary.
 
 
 
1. Description of the Transaction
On September 17, 2006, Commonwealth, Citizens and CF Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Citizens, entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which, on March 8, 2007, CF Merger Corp. merged with and into Commonwealth, with Commonwealth surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Citizens. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Commonwealth common stock (other than shares owned by Commonwealth, Citizens and CF Merger Corp.) was converted into the right to receive $31.31 in cash and 0.768 shares of Citizens common stock.
Citizens is accounting for the Merger as a purchase under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Commonwealth are recorded as of the acquisition date, at their respective fair values, and consolidated with those of Citizens. The reported consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Citizens after completion of the Merger will reflect these fair values.
2. Purchase Price
The following schedule provides a summary of the purchase price paid by Citizens in the acquisition of Commonwealth:
 
3. Citizens Discontinued Operations and Partnerships
In 2006, we sold our competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC), Electric Lightwave, LLC, or ELI, (including its associated real estate) for $255 million in cash. On March 15, 2005, we sold our conferencing business, CCUSA, for $43.6 million in cash. In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," the results of operations of ELI and CCUSA have been classified as discontinued operations and all prior periods have been recast to give effect thereto.
Effective January 1, 2006, Citizens has applied the provisions of EITF No. 04-05, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights," to consolidate the financial condition and results of operations of Mohave Cellular Limited Partnership, in which Citizens has a 33% ownership interest and is the managing partner. As permitted, Citizens elected to apply EITF No. 04-05 retrospectively from the date of adoption, and all applicable periods have been recast to give effect thereto.
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" relate to the following:
 
 
Goodwill has been further adjusted by $189 million to reflect the establishment of deferred taxes for the non-deductible step-up in the value of Property, plant and equipment and Other intangibles, net at a rate of 37% (resulting in a $189 million adjustment to Deferred income taxes).
The allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities is preliminary. The final allocation of the purchase price will be based on the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as determined by third-party valuation. There can be no assurance that the actual allocation will not differ significantly from the preliminary allocation.
 
The pro forma adjustment for long-term debt reflects the assumed conversion of the $300 million of Commonwealth convertible notes, offset in part by the incurrence of the $200 million under the bridge loan.
The pro forma adjustment to cash reflects the cash paid at closing of $788.9 million, the cash portion of the settlement of Commonwealth's convertible notes for $172.7 million, the repayment of Commonwealth's revolving credit facility for $35 million, and the payment of estimated closing fees and expenses of $10.1 million, offset in part by the additional borrowing in connection with the Merger of $200 million.
 
 
The actual depreciation and amortization expense will be based on the results of the third-party valuation of the acquired assets and the related estimated lives. There can be no assurance that the actual depreciation and amortization expense will not differ significantly from the pro forma adjustment presented.
 
Pro forma interest expense also reflects adjustments to increase interest expense as a result of two borrowings made by Citizens during the month of December 2006. In December, Citizens issued $400 million principal amount of 7.875 % Senior Notes due 2027 and borrowed $150 million under a term loan agreement at a variable interest rate which is estimated to be 6.75%.
 
5. Pro forma shares outstanding (basic and diluted) have been adjusted to give effect to the issuance in connection with the Merger of 20,702,150 shares of Citizens common stock. Of the approximate 20.7 million shares issued, approximately 15.5 million were released from treasury and the remainder is represented by newly issued shares.
6. Includes in the aggregate approximately $85 million of gain recorded by Citizens and Commonwealth resulting from the proceeds received in the second quarter of 2006 from the dissolution of the Rural Telephone Bank.


