FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20070411164531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
   
see
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K of Citizens Communications Company (the Company) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2007 relating to the Companys acquisition of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. (Commonwealth). This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed on March 9, 2007 to include the financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Items 9.01(a) and 9.01(b) of Form 8-K. The information previously reported under Item 2.01 of the Form 8-K filed on March 9, 2006 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K/A.
ITEM 9.01 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired
The audited consolidated financial statements of Commonwealth as of December 31, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 found on pages F-25 through F-56 and pages S-1 through S-4 of Commonwealths Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (File No. 0-11053), are incorporated herein by reference.
(b)  Pro forma financial information
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information relating to Citizens acquisition of Commonwealth is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K/A and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 11, 2007
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is based upon the historical consolidated financial information of Citizens Communications Company (Citizens) and Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. (Commonwealth), and has been prepared to reflect Citizens acquisition of Commonwealth on March 8, 2007 (the Merger) based on the purchase method of accounting, with Citizens treated as the acquirer. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable to the Merger and factually supportable and, in the case of the statement of operations information, that are expected to have a continuing impact. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet information has been prepared as of December 31, 2006 and gives effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations information has been prepared for the year ended December 31, 2006 and gives effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the Merger been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of Citizens after completion of the Merger.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any potential cost savings or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Merger. In addition, Citizens cost to acquire Commonwealth will be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition. The allocation is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
1. Description of the Transaction
 
On September 17, 2006, Commonwealth, Citizens and CF Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Citizens, entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which, on March 8, 2007, CF Merger Corp. merged with and into Commonwealth, with Commonwealth surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Citizens. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Commonwealth common stock (other than shares owned by Commonwealth, Citizens and CF Merger Corp.) was converted into the right to receive $31.31 in cash and 0.768 shares of Citizens common stock.
 
Citizens is accounting for the Merger as a purchase under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Commonwealth are recorded as of the acquisition date, at their respective fair values, and consolidated with those of Citizens. The reported consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Citizens after completion of the Merger will reflect these fair values.
 
2. Purchase Price
 
The following schedule provides a summary of the purchase price paid by Citizens in the acquisition of Commonwealth:
___________
 
4
3. Citizens Discontinued Operations and Partnerships
 
In 2006, we sold our competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC), Electric Lightwave, LLC, or ELI, (including its associated real estate) for $255 million in cash. On March 15, 2005, we sold our conferencing business, CCUSA, for $43.6 million in cash. In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, the results of operations of ELI and CCUSA have been classified as discontinued operations and all prior periods have been recast to give effect thereto.
 
Effective January 1, 2006, Citizens has applied the provisions of EITF No. 04-05, Determining Whether a General Partner, or General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights, to consolidate the financial condition and results of operations of Mohave Cellular Limited Partnership, in which Citizens has a 33% ownership interest and is the managing partner. As permitted, Citizens elected to apply EITF No. 04-05 retrospectively from the date of adoption, and all applicable periods have been recast to give effect thereto.
 
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
 
Adjustments included in the column under the heading Pro Forma Adjustments relate to the following:
 
 
Goodwill has been further adjusted by $189 million to reflect the establishment of deferred taxes for the non-deductible step-up in the value of Property, plant and equipment and Other intangibles, net at a rate of 37% (resulting in a $189 million adjustment to Deferred income taxes).
 
The allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities is preliminary. The final allocation of the purchase price will be based on the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as determined by third-party valuation. There can be no assurance that the actual allocation will not differ significantly from the preliminary allocation.
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 5. Pro forma shares outstanding (basic and diluted) have been adjusted to give effect to the issuance in connection with the Merger of 20,702,150 shares of Citizens common stock. Of the approximate 20.7 million shares issued, approximately 15.5 million were released from treasury and the remainder is represented by newly issued shares.
   
  
 
6. Includes in the aggregate approximately $85 million of gain recorded by Citizens and Commonwealth resulting from the proceeds received in the second quarter of 2006 from the dissolution of the Rural Telephone Bank.
 


