FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20090513202021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01           OTHER EVENTS
On May 13, 2009, Frontier Communications Corporation (the issued a press release announcing that it has signed a definitive agreement with Verizon Communications Inc. under which the Company will acquire approximately 4.8 million access lines from Verizon.  A copy of the Company's press release issued on May 13, 2009 announcing the transaction is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Company) 
 
On May 13, 2009, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share, payable on June 30, 2009 to holders of record of its common stock at the close of business on June 9, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release issued on May 13, 2009 announcing the declaration of the dividend is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)  Exhibit           The following exhibits are filed as part of this report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 13, 2009
 
 
 
Exhibits
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
Frontier Communications to Acquire Verizon Assets Creating Nation's Largest Pure Rural Communications Services Provider
 
 
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May. 13, 2009-- Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement with Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ) under which Frontier will acquire approximately 4.8 million access lines from Verizon. The all stock transaction is valued at approximately $8.6 billion. The transaction will create the largest pure rural communications services provider and the nations fifth largest incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) with more than 7 million access lines, 8.6 million voice and broadband connections and 16,000 employees in 27 states. Frontier will offer broadband, new bundled services and expanded technologies to customers across its expanded geographic footprint.
 
Under the terms of the agreement, Verizon will establish a separate newly formed entity (SpinCo) for its local exchanges and related business assets in 14 states. SpinCo will be spun off to Verizons shareholders and simultaneously merged with and into Frontier. The transaction has been approved by the Boards of Directors of Frontier and Verizon, and is expected to be completed within approximately 12 months.
 
The transaction is extremely compelling for all stakeholders of Frontier. It will provide Frontier with enhanced scale and scope, improved positioning, a strong balance sheet, and greater cash flow generation capabilities. For the fiscal year ended 2008, the combined company would have had on a pro forma basis revenue in excess of $6.5 billion, EBITDA of approximately $3.1 billion, free cash flow of approximately $1.4 billion and would have had leverage of 2.6 times EBITDA at December 31, 2008.
 
Maggie Wilderotter, Frontier Communications Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, This is a truly transformational transaction for Frontier. With more than 7 million access lines in 27 states, we will be the largest pure rural communications provider of voice, broadband and video services in the U.S. Frontier is committed to providing our customers with state-of-the-art technology and innovative products. We are confident that we can dramatically accelerate the penetration of broadband in these new markets during the first 18 months. We know that broadband is a catalyst for a healthy local economy and job growth.
 
We have a track record of successfully integrating new operations and know that a seamless transition benefits customers and employees. Frontier and Verizon have gone to great lengths to ensure that the transaction will be well-executed. We will focus on execution, as well as on improving operations, delivering new products and services and achieving synergy targets. This transaction makes us a larger and an even stronger company, with significantly greater free cash flow generation capability. This acquisition will benefit the communities we serve, increase opportunities for employees and allow us to continue to deliver world-class profit margins and revenue growth for shareholders, continued Ms. Wilderotter.
 
 
 
 
Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon, said, This transaction is part of our multi-year effort to transform our growth profile and asset base to focus on wireless, broadband, and global IP. At the same time, its an attractive way to unleash untapped value for our shareholders. Frontier knows how to run wireline communications services well and has a top- team to take these properties to the next level. I am confident the company will provide the employees in these states with opportunities as it focuses on growth and an expanded portfolio of products in those markets.
notch management
 
Benefits of the Transaction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of the Transaction
 
Verizon will establish a separate entity (SpinCo), which will hold the local exchange and related business assets in the 14 states that are the subject of the transaction. SpinCo will carry approximately $3.333 billion of debt consisting of a combination of newly issued debt as well as assumed debt already issued by entities that are being contributed to SpinCo. Verizon will receive approximately $3.333 billion of cash or debt relief. Verizon will then spin off SpinCo pro rata to its shareholders and SpinCo will immediately merge with and into Frontier. Verizons shareholders will receive shares of Frontier common stock in connection with the merger in an amount to be determined at closing, which is expected to have a value of approximately $5.25 billion.
 
The exact number of shares to be issued by Frontier will be determined based on Frontiers 30-day weighted average closing share price ending 3 trading days prior to closing, subject to a collar such that in no case will the Frontier common stock price, for the purpose of determining the number of shares of Frontier common stock to be issued to Verizon shareholders at closing, be lower than $7.00 or higher than $8.50. Depending on the trading prices of Frontier shares just prior to the closing, upon the closing of the transaction, Verizon shareholders will own between approximately 66 and 71 percent of the new company, and Frontier shareholders will own between approximately 29 and 34 percent. Verizon will not own any shares in Frontier after the merger. Both the spin-off and merger are expected to qualify as tax-free transactions, except to the extent that cash is paid to Verizon shareholders in lieu of fractional shares.
 
Frontier will acquire Verizon access lines in Arizona, California, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, Washington, Wisconsin and West Virginia. Frontier currently provides phone, video, Internet and broadband services to more than 2 million customers in 24 states, including 11 of the states that are part of the agreement announced today. The Verizon properties include approximately 4.8 million access lines, with 1.0 million High-Speed Internet customers, 2.2 million long-distance customers, 164,000 DirecTV customers and 69,000 FiOS video customers.
 
and Timing
Leadership, Approvals
 
The combined business will be managed by Frontiers existing executive team, led by Maggie Wilderotter. The companys headquarters will be in Stamford, Connecticut.
 
The transaction is subject to approval by Frontier shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, and the obtaining of financing by SpinCo. The transaction is expected to be completed within approximately 12 months.
 
Aors
dvis
 
Citi and Evercore Partners acted as financial advisors to Frontier and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal advisor.
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
 
Frontier will host a conference call with financial analysts at 8:30 a.m. Eastern (5:30 a.m. Pacific) today to discuss this announcement. Financial analysts are invited to participate in the call by dialing 877-681-3375 (access code 9144157) at Frontier 15 minutes before the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 719-325-4900 (access code 9144157). Replays will be available for one week at 888-203-1112 (access code 9144157) from within North America and at 719-457-0820 (access code 9144157) from outside North America. Media and other interested individuals are invited to listen to the live broadcast on the companys website.
 
  To access an investor presentation, fact sheet and map related to the transaction, please visit the Investor Relations section of Frontiers website at .
NOTE:
www.frontier.com/ir
 
About Frontier Communications
 
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE:FTR) offers telephone, video and internet services in 24 states with approximately 5,600 employees. More information is available at .
www.frontier.com
 
Forward-Looking Language
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements speak only as of the date of this press release and are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance. Words such as believe, anticipate, expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements (including oral representations) involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. These risks and uncertainties are based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: reductions in the number of our access lines and high-speed internet subscribers; the effects of competition from cable, wireless and other wireline carriers (through voice over internet protocol (VOIP) or otherwise); reductions in switched access revenues as a result of regulation, competition and/or technology substitutions; the effects of greater than anticipated competition requiring new pricing, marketing strategies or new product offerings and the risk that we will not respond on a timely or profitable basis; the effects of changes in both general and local economic conditions on the markets we serve, which can impact demand for our products and services, customer purchasing decisions, collectibility of revenue and required levels of capital expenditures related to new construction of residences and businesses; our ability to effectively manage service quality; our ability to successfully introduce new product offerings, including our ability to offer bundled service packages on terms that are both profitable to us and attractive to our customers; our ability to sell enhanced and data services in order to offset ongoing declines in revenue from local services, switched access services and subsidies; changes in accounting policies or practices adopted voluntarily or as required by generally accepted accounting principles or regulators; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry as a result of federal and state legislation and regulation, including potential changes in state rate of return limitations on our earnings, access charges and subsidy payments, and regulatory network upgrade and reliability requirements; our ability to effectively manage our operations, operating expenses and capital expenditures, to pay dividends and to reduce or refinance our debt; adverse changes in the credit markets and/or in the ratings given to our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations, which could limit or restrict the availability and/or increase the cost of financing; the effects of bankruptcies and home foreclosures, which could result in increased bad debts; the effects of technological changes and competition on our capital expenditures and product and service offerings, including the lack of assurance that our ongoing network improvements will be sufficient to meet or exceed the capabilities and quality of competing networks; the effects of increased medical, retiree and pension expenses and related funding requirements; changes in income tax rates, tax laws, regulations or rulings, and/or federal or state tax assessments; further declines in the value of our pension plan assets, which could require us to make contributions to the pension plan beginning in 2010, at the earliest; the effects of state regulatory cash management policies on our ability to transfer cash among our subsidiaries and to the parent company; our ability to successfully renegotiate union contracts expiring in 2009 and thereafter; our ability to pay a $1.00 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by our cash flow from operations, amount of capital expenditures, debt service requirements, cash paid for income taxes (which will increase in 2009) and our liquidity; the effects of significantly increased cash taxes in 2009 and thereafter; the effects of any unfavorable outcome with respect to any of our current or future legal, governmental, or regulatory proceedings, audits or disputes; the possible impact of adverse changes in political or other external factors over which we have no control; and the effects of hurricanes, ice storms or other severe weather. These and other uncertainties related to our business are described in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. There also can be no assurance that the proposed transaction will in fact be consummated. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or to make any other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise unless required to do so by securities laws.
 
 
 
 
Additional Information and Where to Find it
 
This press release is not a substitute for the prospectus/proxy statement Frontier will file with the SEC. We urge investors to read the prospectus/proxy statement, which will contain important information, including detailed risk factors, when it becomes available. The prospectus/proxy statement and other documents which will be filed by Frontier with the SEC will be available free of charge at the SECs website, , or by directing a request when such a filing is made to Frontier, 3 High Ridge Park, Stamford, CT 06905-1390, Attention: Investor Relations.
www.sec.gov
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
 
Frontier and certain of its directors, executive officers and other members of management and employees may, under SEC rules, be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transactions. Information about the directors and executive officers of Frontier is set forth in the proxy statement for Frontiers 2009 annual meeting of stockholders filed with the SEC on April 6, 2009.
 
Source: Frontier Communications Corporation
 
Frontier Communications Corporation
Investors:
David Whitehouse, 203-614-5708
or
Media:
Steven Crosby, 916-206-8198
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Contact:
David Whitehouse
203.614.5708
 
For Immediate Release
Frontier Communications Corporation Declares Second-Quarter Dividend
Frontier Communications Corporation
Stamford, Conn.  May 13, 2009 
(NYSE:FTR) announced today that
its Board of Directors has declared a regular
quarterly
cash dividend
paymen
t of $0.25 per share of common stock,
payable on
June 30
,
 
200
9
to holders of record of
common stock at the close of
business on
June
9,
 
200
9
.


