FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20100707142208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
 
 
 
On June 30, 2010, the previously announced resignation of Ms. Lawton W. Fitt from the Board of Directors of Frontier Communications Corporation (the Company) became effective.  On July 6, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Mr. Edward Fraioli, Ms. Pamela D.A. Reeve and Mr. Mark Shapiro to serve as Directors of the Company, filling the vacancy left by Ms. Fitt and two other vacancies on the Companys Board of Directors.  As previously reported on the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2010, Mr. Fraioli, Ms. Reeve and Mr. Shapiro were designated by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) to be elected to the Companys Board of Directors pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 13, 2009, as amended, by and among Verizon, N ew Communications Holdings Inc. (Spinco), and the Company.  Spinco merged with and into the Company effective July 1, 2010.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Frontier Communications
3 High Ridge Park
Stamford, CT 06905
203.614.5600
www.frontier.com
Contact:
Steve Crosby
SVP, Government and Regulatory Affairs
916.206.8198                                                                    
steven.crosby@ftr.com
 
 
 
 
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR), the leading provider of communications services to rural America, today announced the election of Edward Fraioli, Pamela D.A. Reeve and Mark Shapiro to its Board of Directors.  These changes to the Board were required by the terms of the merger agreement between Frontier and Verizon Communications, which include a provision that the Frontier Board, post-merger, consist of 12 directors, three to be initially designated by Verizon and nine by Frontier.
STAMFORD, Conn., July 7, 2010 --
 
"The changes to Frontiers Board of Directors ensure the company will continue to benefit from a diversity of experience and opinions. Ed, Pam and Mark have proven leadership skills, broad management experience in established companies, and are truly independent thinkers familiar with challenging market conditions," said Maggie Wilderotter, Chairman and CEO of Frontier.  Together they add leadership, operational and financial expertise, as well as extensive corporate governance experience.
 
The new members of the Board of Directors are:
 
recently retired from Ernst & Young LLP, a public accounting firm, where he had been a partner since 1984.  He served as Professional Practice Director for Ernst & Youngs Private Equity practice since 2008, where he was responsible for support of engagement teams on accounting and auditing matters.  From 2005 through 2008, Mr. Fraioli served as Ernst & Youngs Global Vice Chairman for Independence matters within Global Quality and Risk Management, where he was responsible for the Ernst & Youngs global independence organization.  Prior to 2005, he served as lead audit partner on a number of public and global companies.
Edward D. Fraioli
 
 
 
 
has been a director of American Tower Corporation since March 2002 and serves as the Lead Director and a member of the compensation and
Pamela D. A. Reeve
nominating and corporate governance committees of the American Tower board.  From November 1989 to August 2004, she was the founder and a director of Lightbridge, Inc., a global provider of mobile business software and technology solutions, offering products and services for the wireless telecommunications industry, where she held various executive positions, including President and Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Reeve served on the board of directors of Liv eWire Mobile, Inc. from 1997 until November 2009.
served as President, CEO and a director of Six Flags Entertainment Corporation (formerly Six Flags, Inc.), a theme park company, from December 2005 until May 2010.  Prior to joining Six Flags, Mr. Shapiro spent 12 years at ESPN, Inc., where he served as Executive Vice President, Programming and Production and in various other capacities.  Mr. Shapiro has been a director of Live Nation, Inc. since November 2008 and a trustee on the board of Equity Residential since January 2010.
Mark Shapiro
About Frontier
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) offers voice, High-Speed Internet, satellite video, wireless Internet data access, data security solutions, bundled offerings, specialized bundles for small businesses and home offices, and advanced business communications Access Solutions for medium and large businesses in 27 states and with approximately 14,600 employees. More information is available at and .
www.frontier.com
www.frontier.com/ir


