FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20100209120429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
 
 
The information set forth in the press release issued by Frontier Communications Corporation on February 9, 2010, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

[Frontier Logo]
Exhibit 99.1
Frontier Communications
3 High Ridge Park
Stamford, CT 06905
203.614.5600
www.frontier.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact
  Sunday was the kick-off of Frontier Communications Corporations (NYSE:FTR) new site , a single source solution for the great video content, entertainment and news the Web offers  TV shows, sports, movies, news and more  along with local content.  In Rochester, N.Y., Cincinnati, Ohio, Sacramento, Calif. and Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minn., viewers saw a 30-second commercial with a simple, strong message: withfrom Frontier.
Stamford, Conn., February 9, 2010 - --
www.myfitv.com
Search less, watch more.
For free
my fitv
The new site, a single source to more than 100,000 titles, is available to anyone (Frontier customer or not) and offers viewers the easiest online access to the very best in entertainment.  The site showcases major networks, including ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox,  Food Network, Bravo, FX, Syfy, HGTV, National Geographic, Oxygen, Comedy Central, ESPN360 and TBS; classic, recently released and favorite movies; and sports programming that covers all seasons.  In some markets, offers news and content from local TV affiliate stations as well.
my fitv
 reflects the disappearing lines between televisions, personal computers and mobile devices and the way time is shifting.  Today, consumers dont have the time or patience to see programs at specific times, or to even sit through an entire program.   gives viewers control, and its unique user experience offers more than 100,000 titles and seamless search and navigation functions.  Its all about , says Maggie Wilderotter, Chairman and CEO of Frontier.
my fitv
my fitv
search less and watch more
 
 
 
At Frontier, the consumer experience and value are of paramount importance, added Mrs. Wilderotter.   is available to all and offers a great deal of content.  If the content is available on the Web for free, then we offer it for free. If its not, then we offer a pay-per-view option through our partnership with Amazon.com, she stated.  The combination of high-quality, high-definition, free and video-on-demand paid content is accessible through a user interface grid that is designed to open up to the most free programming available.  We offer a unique consumer experience.
my fitv
free
To access , go to or to the Frontier Yahoo! portal page at .  New content and enhancements are being added to the site all the time, " said Mrs. Wilderotter.  We want to keep it fresh, interesting and robust.
my fitv
www.myfitv.com
www.frontier.my.yahoo.com
We will keep increasing quality entertainment options and saving viewers money. We are delighted to offer this outstanding Internet-based TV user experience. Stay tuned for more from Frontier!
About Frontier Communications
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) is a full-service communications provider and one of the largest local exchange telephone companies in the country serving rural areas and small and medium-sized towns and cities. Frontier is included in the S&P 500 Index. Frontier Communications offers telephone, television and Internet services, including wireless Internet data access, as well as bundled offerings, specialized bundles for small businesses and home offices, and data security solutions. Additional information about Frontier is available at .
www.frontier.com
 
 


