FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20100416110558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01                      ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On April 12, 2010, New Communications Holdings Inc. (Spinco), a subsidiary of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) formed for the purposes of holding defined assets and liabilities of the local exchange business and related landline activities of Verizon in 14 states, completed its previously announced offering of $3.2 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes (the Notes Offering).
The gross proceeds of the Notes Offering, plus an amount in cash contributed by Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier) that equals the amount of interest that will accrue on the notes from April 12, 2010, to October 1, 2010, were deposited into an escrow account concurrently with the closing of the Notes Offering, pursuant to an escrow agreement dated as of April 12, 2010, among Spinco, Frontier, The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon, as escrow agent and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc, as representative of the several initial purchasers of the Senior Notes.  
 
Immediately prior to the spin-off of Spinco to Verizons shareholders and the subsequent merger of Spinco with and into Frontier
, the net proceeds of the Notes Offering will be released to Spinco to finance a special cash payment by Spinco to Verizon in connection with the spin-off.  Promptly upon consummation of the merger, the remaining funds in the escrow account will be released as follows:  first, to the initial purchasers in the Notes Offering in an amount equal to the initial purchasers discount from the Notes Offering and second, the remainder of the amounts held in the escrow account will be released to, or at the direction of, Frontier.
If, however, the merger agreement governing the merger is terminated or the spin-off and the merger are not completed on or before October 1, 2010, the funds in the escrow account will be released and used to redeem each series of Senior Notes, in each case at a price equal to 100% of the issue price, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount, of such series of notes.
Concurrently with the closing of the offering, Frontier and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representative of the several initial purchasers of the Senior Notes, entered into separate registration rights agreements for each series of Senior Notes, pursuant to which Frontier has agreed, following the merger of Spinco with and into Frontier, to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission an exchange offer registration statement or, in certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement, registering each series of Senior Notes.
The foregoing description of the registration rights agreements and the escrow agreement is only a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements. Copies of the escrow agreement and registration rights agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.01                     OTHER EVENTS
 
The Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2010, by and between Spinco and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the Indenture).  Following the spin-off and the subsequent merger, Frontier will assume all of Spincos obligations under the Senior Notes and the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)  Exhibit                      The following exhibits are filed as part of this report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 16, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
This ESCROW AGREEMENT (this ) is made and entered into as of April 12, 2010 among New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee under the Indenture referred to below (in such capacity, the ) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as escrow agent (in such capacity, the ) and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (), as the representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) (collectively, the ), in favor of Holders (as defined in the Indenture) of the Notes (as defined herein) issued on the date hereof by the Company under the Indenture referred to below.
Escrow Agreement
Company
Frontier
Trustee
Escrow Agent
Representative
Initial Purchasers
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Frontier and the Initial Purchasers are parties to a Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 2010 (as such agreement may be amended, the ), pursuant to which the Company will issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers an aggregate of $500,000,000 principal amount of its 7.875% Senior Notes due 2015 (the ), an aggregate of $1,100,000,000 principal amount of its 8.250% Senior Notes due 2017 (the ), an aggregate of $1,100,000,000 principal amount of its 8.500% Senior Notes due 2020 (the ) and an aggregate of $500,000,000 principal amount of its 8.750% Senior Notes due 2022 (the , and together with the 2015 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2020 Notes, the );
Purchase  Agreement
2015 Notes
2017 Notes
2020 Notes
2022 Notes
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have entered into that certain Indenture dated as of the date hereof (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), pursuant to which the Company is issuing the Notes on the date hereof;
Indenture
 
WHEREAS, on the date hereof, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, (a) the Initial Purchasers are required to deposit, or direct the deposit, into the Escrow Account (as defined herein) of $3,136,000,000 (representing the aggregate purchase price paid by the Initial Purchasers for the Notes) (the ), (b) the Initial Purchasers are required to deposit, or direct the deposit, into the Escrow Account of $64,000,000 (representing the difference between the purchase price paid by the Initial Purchasers for the Notes and the resale price of the Notes) (the and together with the Net Offering Proceeds, the ), and (c) Frontier is required to deposit, or direct the deposit, into the Escrow Account the Additional Commitments (as defined herein), which amounts specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above in the aggregate shall, at a minimum, be an amount sufficient to redeem the Notes in cash at the Special Redemption Price (as defined herein) on October 1, 2010, and shall be held by the Escrow Agent for the benefit of the Trustee and the ratable benefit of the Holders as their interests may appear;
Net Offering Proceeds
Initial Purchasers Discount
Gross Offering Proceeds
 
WHEREAS, in the event that (x) the Spin-Off and the Merger (each as defined herein) have not been consummated substantially as described in the Offering Memorandum (as defined herein) by 11:59 p.m. (New York City time) on October 1, 2010, or (y) the Merger Agreement (as defined herein) is terminated in accordance with its terms prior to or on October 1, 2010, the
Company shall be required to redeem the Notes at the Special Redemption Price on the Special Redemption Date (as defined herein) pursuant to the special redemption provisions of the Indenture (the );
Special Redemption Obligations
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained, the Company, Frontier, the Trustee, the Representative (on behalf of the Initial Purchasers) and the Escrow Agent hereby agree, for the benefit of the Trustee and for the ratable benefit of the Holders, as follows:
 
         
SECTION 1.
Certain Definitions; Appointment; Deposit and Investment.
 
1.1           
Definitions.
 
means $125,517,708.33 in cash, which represents the sum of (i) $18,484,375.00 (which represents interest on the aggregate principal amount of the 2015 Notes at a rate of 7.875% per annum, as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, from and including the date hereof to but excluding October 1, 2010), (ii) $42,602,083.33 (which represents interest on the aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Notes at a rate of 8.250% per annum, as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, from and including the date hereof to but excluding October 1, 2010), (iii) $43,893,055.56 (which represents interest on the aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes at a rate of 8.500% per annum, as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, from and including the date hereof to but excluding October 1, 2010) and (iv) $20,538,194.44 (which represents interest on the aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes at a rate of 8.750% per annum, as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, from and including April 12, 2010 to but excluding October 1, 2010).
Additional Commitments
 
means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York City.
Business Day
 
means (i) non-interest bearing bank deposits; (ii) interest bearing bank deposits; (iii) investments in any readily accessible money market fund with assets under management of at least $10 billion that invests solely in U.S. Government Securities; provided, however, that the Escrowed Funds deposited in any such fund may not represent more than 2.0% of the assets in such fund; (iv) investments in any prime money market fund with assets in excess of $35 billion, provided that no more than $750 million of the Escrowed Funds may be invested in any single such fund; or (v) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than six months from the date hereof.
Cash Equivalents
 
means the Distribution Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2009, by and between Verizon and the Company, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Distribution Agreement
 
means the escrow account titled New Communications Holdings Inc. Escrow Account established hereby with the Escrow Agent.
Escrow Account
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
shall mean the Person named as the escrow agent in the first paragraph of this Escrow Agreement until a successor escrow agent shall have become such, in accordance with Section 7 hereof, and thereafter Escrow Agent shall mean the Person who is then the Escrow Agent hereunder.
Escrow Agent
 
means October 1, 2010.
Escrow End Date
 
means the aggregate amount of the Gross Offering Proceeds plus the aggregate amount of the Additional Commitments plus the Top-Up Commitments (if required), including all investments thereof made hereunder, plus all interest, dividends and other distributions and payments thereon received by the Escrow Agent.
Escrowed Funds
 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.
Merger
 
means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 13, 2009, among Verizon, the Company and Frontier, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Merger Agreement
 
means the final offering memorandum of the Company, dated March 26, 2010, relating to the offering of the Notes, including the information incorporated therein by reference.
Offering Memorandum
 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Paying Agent
 
or means a natural person, corporation, company, joint venture, individual business trust, trust association, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or other entity.
Person
person
 
means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Distribution Agreement (as defined herein).
Special Payment
 
means (i) $500,000,000 (which represents the portion of the Gross Offering Proceeds attributable to the 2015 Notes, or 100% of the issue price thereof), (ii) $1,100,000,000 (which represents the portion of the Gross Offering Proceeds attributable to the 2017 Notes, or 100% of the issue price thereof), (iii) (i) $1,100,000,000 (which represents the portion of the Gross Offering Proceeds attributable to the 2020 Notes, or 100% of the issue price thereof) and (iv) $500,000,000 (which represents the portion of the Gross Offering Proceeds attributable to the 2022 Notes, or 100% of the issue price thereof), plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes, as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, from and including the date hereof to, but excluding, the Special Redemption Date (as defined herein).
Special Redemption Price
 
means the spin-off, immediately prior to the Merger, of the Company to the stockholders of Verizon (as defined herein), pursuant to the Distribution Agreement.
Spin-Off
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
means an amount in cash equal to (x) the Special Redemption Price (calculated, for the purpose of this definition, assuming the Special Redemption Date is October 4, 2010) minus (y) the aggregate amount of Escrowed Funds (not including, for this purpose, the Top-Up Commitment) as of 9:00 a.m. (New York City time) on September 30, 2010, provided that in no event shall the Top-Up Commitment be less than $0.
Top-Up Commitment
 
means the Company and Frontier.
Transaction Parties
 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.
Transactions
 
means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the timely payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include (a) a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), as custodian, with respect to any such U.S. Government Securities or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Securities held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt; that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Securities or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Securities evidenced by such depository receipt and (b) reverse repurchase agreements in respect of the securities described above.
U.S. Government Securities
,
provided
however
,
 
 means Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Verizon
 
All capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
 
1.2          
Appointment of the Escrow Agent
 
Each of the Company, Frontier and the Initial Purchasers hereby appoint The Bank of New York Mellon as Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein and The Bank of New York Mellon hereby accepts such appointment. Any and all Escrowed Funds shall be deposited with the Escrow Agent in the Escrow Account, in U.S. Dollars, by wire transfer. The Escrow Agent shall not be required, or have any duty, to notify anyone of any payment or maturity under the terms of any instrument deposited hereunder, nor to take any legal action to enforce payment of any check, note or security deposited hereunder or to exercise any right or privilege which may be afforded to the holder of any such security.
 
1.3          
Establish Account
 
The Escrow Agent shall establish and maintain the Escrow Account herein provided for in accordance with the terms of this Escrow Agreement.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
1.4         
Deposit of Escrowed Funds
 
On the date hereof and concurrently with the closing of the sale of the Notes, (x) the Initial Purchasers shall deposit, or direct the deposit of, at the direction of the Company and pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Net Offering Proceeds, (y) the Initial Purchasers shall deposit, or direct the deposit of, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Initial Purchasers Discount, and (z) Frontier shall deposit, or direct the deposit of, the Additional Commitments, into the Escrow Account.
 
SECTION 2.         
Maintaining the Escrow Account
 
Except as otherwise provided by the provisions of Section 4 and Section 9 hereof:
 
(a)           Until (i) the Escrowed Funds have been disbursed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) and the Merger Confirmation Certificate (as defined herein) has been provided, or (ii) the Special Redemption Price has been paid in full in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(c), the Company will maintain the Escrow Account with the Escrow Agent.
 
(b)           It shall be a term and condition of the Escrow Account, notwithstanding any term or condition to the contrary in any other agreement relating to the Escrow Account (other than this Escrow Agreement), that no amount (including interest, dividends or other distributions or payments on Escrow Investments (as defined herein)) shall be paid or released to or for the account of, or withdrawn by or for the account of, the Company, Frontier, the Initial Purchasers or any other Person from the Escrow Account except in accordance with the provisions of this Escrow Agreement.
 
(c) The Escrow Account shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and of any other appropriate banking or governmental authority, as may now or hereafter be in effect.
 
SECTION 3.          
Investing of Escrowed Funds
 
Prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture), Escrowed Funds held by the Escrow Agent in the Escrow Account shall be invested and reinvested by the Escrow Agent in the name of the Escrow Agent in Cash Equivalents (such investments and reinvestments, the ), at the written direction of the Company or, failing such written direction, Frontier; and after an Event of Default of which a Responsible Officer (as defined in the Indenture) of the Trustee has received written notice or in the absence of any written direction from the Company or Frontier, the Escrow Agent shall invest and reinvest the Escrowed Funds held by the Escrow Agent in the Escrow Account in the name of the Escrow Agent in interest bearing bank deposits. In no event shall the Escrow Agent or the Company be liable for any loss in the Escrow Investments unless such loss results from Escrowed Funds being invested in investments other than Cash Equivalents or such partys bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Escrow Investments
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
SECTION 4.          
Disbursements
 
The Escrow Agent shall hold the Escrowed Funds in the Escrow Account and release the same only as follows:
 
(a)           If the Escrow Agent receives at or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City
time) on the Escrow End Date, a release certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Company and an authorized officer of Frontier in the form attached hereto as (the ), the Escrow Agent shall release to, or at the written direction of the Company, the Net Offering Proceeds.
Exhibit A
Spin-Off/Merger Release Certificate
 
(b)           Promptly upon consummation of the Merger, Frontier shall deliver to the
Escrow Agent a certificate signed by an authorized officer of Frontier in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (a ) certifying that the Merger has been consummated, upon receipt of which the Escrow Agent shall as promptly as practicable release (A) first, to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the wire instructions detailed in Section 10. 16, an amount equal to the Initial Purchasers Discount, and (B) second, to, or at the written direction of, Frontier the remainder of the Escrowed Funds held in the Escrow Account.
Merger Confirmation Certificate
 
(c)           If (i) the Escrow Agent receives, at or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City
time) on the Escrow End Date, a certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Company (a ) and a certificate signed by an authorized officer of Frontier (a , and together with a Company Termination Certificate, the ), each in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, certifying that the Merger Agreement has been terminated in accordance with its terms (the first Business Day on which the Escrow Agent has possession of both Termination Certificates, the ), (ii) the Escrow Agent has not received, at or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Escrow End Date, a Spin-Off/Merger Release Certificate, or (iii) the Escrow Agent has not received, at or prior to 11:59 p.m. (New York City time) on the Escrow End Date (such time on such date, the ) a Merger Confirmation Certificate, the Escrow Agent shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing on the Termination Date (in the case of clause (i) of this sentence) or the Escrow End Date (in the case of clause (ii) or (iii) of this sentence) (the applicable date, the ) that Notes are to be redeemed on (x) the Redemption Notice Date (in the case of clause (ii) of this sentence, or if the Termination Certificates are received prior to 11:00 a.m. on the Redemption Notice Date in the case of clause (i) of this sentence), or (y) the next Business Day following the Redemption Notice Date (in all other cases) (the applicable date, the ) in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture. The Trustee shall promptly notify each Holder (with a copy to the Escrow Agent) in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture that all of the outstanding Notes shall be redeemed on the Special Redemption Date automatically and without any further action by the Holder through the facilities of DTC. At or prior to 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Special Redemption Date, the Escrow Agent shall as promptly as practicable release (A) first, in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the Escrowed Funds and (2) the Special Redemption Price, to the Paying Agent as per the written instructions of the Trustee (which shall specify the Special Redemption Price and the wire payment instructions) and (B) second, to, or at the written direction of, Frontier the remainder of the Escrowed Funds held in the Escrow Account.
Company Termination Certificate
Frontier Termination Certificate
Termination Certificates
Termination  
Date
Cut-Off Time
Redemption Notice Date
Special Redemption Date
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
(d)           As soon as practicable after notice of redemption is given pursuant to
Section 4(c), and in any case at or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Escrow End Date, the Escrow Agent shall notify the Paying Agent, the Trustee, the Company and Frontier of the amount of the Escrowed Funds on deposit in the Escrow Account as of the date such notice of redemption is received or the Escrow End Date, as applicable, and the Paying Agent shall calculate the Special Redemption Price and shall notify the Escrow Agent, the Trustee, the Company and Frontier if the amount of the Escrowed Funds is less than the Special Redemption Price and the amount of such shortfall. Frontier further agrees to pay to the Paying Agent, at or prior to 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Special Redemption Date, cash in the amount of funds necessary to permit all outstanding Notes to be redeemed on the Special Redemption Date at the Special Redemption Price in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture.
 
(e)           In the event the Net Offering Proceeds have been released to the Company
pursuant to Section 4(a) but for any reason the Merger is not consummated at or prior to the earlier of (i) the Cut-Off Time and (ii) 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day following such release of the Net Offering Proceeds, the Company shall promptly arrange for the redeposit of the Net Offering Proceeds into the Escrow Account, such redeposit in no event to be made later than 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Special Redemption Date. For the avoidance of doubt, a redeposit pursuant to this Section 4(e) shall not, in and of itself, be sufficient to require the Escrow Agent to disburse the Escrowed Funds pursuant to Section 4(c), and shall in no way limit the rights of the Transaction Parties established in Sections 4(a) and 4(b).
 
(f)           If by September 30, 2010, neither (i) the Escrowed Funds have been
disbursed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), nor (ii) the Special Redemption Price has been paid in full in accordance with the provisions of Section 4(c), then Frontier shall deposit, or direct the deposit of, the Top-Up Commitment into the Escrow Account on September 30, 2010.
 
(g)           Notwithstanding anything in this Escrow Agreement to the contrary, the
Escrow Agent shall disburse Escrowed Funds as directed pursuant to a final judgment (without further right of appeal) of a court of competent jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Escrow Agent shall provide notice thereof to the Company and Frontier prior to such disbursement.
 
SECTION 5.          
Conditions to Release of Escrowed Funds
 
The release of the Net Offering Proceeds pursuant to Section 4(a) above is subject to the following additional conditions (based solely on the Spin-Off/Merger Release Certificate confirming that such conditions have been satisfied):
 
(a)           The Company expects the Spin-Off to be consummated substantially as
described in the Offering Memorandum promptly upon release of the Net Offering Proceeds; and
 
(b)           Each of the Transaction Parties expects the Merger to be consummated
substantially as described in the Offering Memorandum promptly following the consummation of the Spin-Off.
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6.          
Representations and Warranties
 
(a)           Each of the Transaction Parties hereby severally represents and warrants
that:
 
(1)           This Escrow Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered
by the applicable Transaction Party and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the other parties hereto, will constitute a valid and legally binding agreement of the applicable Transaction Party enforceable against the applicable Transaction Party in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
 
(b)           The Escrow Agent hereby represents and warrants that:
 
(1)           Neither the execution, delivery or performance by the Escrow Agent of
this Escrow Agreement, nor compliance with the terms and provisions hereof, conflicts or will conflict with or results or will result in a breach or violation of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or will require any consent or approval under, any law, governmental rule or regulation or the charter documents, as amended, or bylaws, as amended, of it or any similar instrument binding on it or any order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental authority against it or by which it or any of its properties is bound or of any indenture, mortgage or contract or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties is bound, or constitutes or will constitute a default thereunder or results or will result in the imposition of any lien upon any of its properties.
 
(2)           The execution, delivery and performance of this Escrow Agreement has
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Escrow Agent and does not require any stockholder approval, or approval or consent of any trustee or holder of any indebtedness or obligations of it, and this Escrow Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligations enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
(3)           There are no pending or, to the Escrow Agents knowledge, threatened
actions, suits, investigations or proceedings (whether or not purportedly on behalf of it) against or affecting it or any of its property before or by any court or administrative agency (except, in the case of the immediately following clause (i), as set forth in Part I, Item 3  Legal Proceedings of the Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the annual period ended December 31, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) which, if adversely determined, (i) would adversely affect the ability of it to perform its obligations under this Escrow Agreement or (ii) would call into question or challenge the validity of this Escrow Agreement or the enforceability hereof in accordance with the terms hereof, nor is it in default with respect to any order of any court, governmental authority, arbitration board or administrative agency so as to adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations under this Escrow Agreement.
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
(c)           The Trustee hereby represents and warrants that:
 
(1)           Neither the execution, delivery or performance by the Trustee of this
Escrow Agreement, nor compliance with the terms and provisions hereof, conflicts or will conflict with or results or will result in a breach or violation of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or will require any consent or approval under, any law, governmental rule or regulation or the charter documents, as amended, or bylaws, as amended, of it or any similar instrument binding on it or any order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental authority against it or by which it or any of its properties is bound or of any indenture, mortgage or contract or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties is bound, or constitutes or will constitute a default thereunder or results or will result in the imposition of any lien upon any of its properties.
 
(2)           The execution, delivery and performance of this Escrow Agreement has
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Trustee and does not require any stockholder approval, or approval or consent of any trustee or holder of any indebtedness or obligations of it, and this Escrow Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligations enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
(3)           There are no pending or, to the Trustees knowledge, threatened actions,
suits, investigations or proceedings (whether or not purportedly on behalf of it) against or affecting it or any of its property before or by any court or administrative agency (except, in the case of the immediately following clause (i), as set forth in Part I, Item 3  Legal Proceedings of the Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the annual period ended December 31, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) which, if adversely determined, (i) would adversely affect the ability of it to perform its obligations under this Escrow Agreement or (ii) would call into question or challenge the validity of this Escrow Agreement or the enforceability hereof in accordance with the terms hereof, nor is it in default with respect to any order of any court, governmental authority, arbitration board or administrative agency so as to adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations under this Escrow Agreement.
 
SECTION 7.          
Escrow Agent Rights and Duties
 
(a)        The duties, responsibilities and obligations of the Escrow Agent shall be limited to those expressly set forth herein and no duties, responsibilities or obligations shall be inferred or implied. The Escrow Agent shall not be subject to, nor required to comply with, any other agreement between or among any or all of the other parties hereto or to which any of them is a party, even though reference thereto may be made herein, or to comply with any direction or instruction (other than those contained herein or delivered in accordance with this Escrow Agreement) from any such party or any entity acting on its behalf. The Escrow Agent shall not be required to, and shall not, expend or risk any of its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder.
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
(b)            If at any time the Escrow Agent is served with any judicial or
administrative order, judgment, decree, writ or other form of judicial or administrative process
which in any way affects Escrowed Funds (including but not limited to orders of attachment or garnishment or other forms of levies or injunctions or stays relating to the transfer of Escrowed Funds), the Escrow Agent is authorized to comply therewith in any manner as it or its legal counsel of its own choosing deems appropriate; and if the Escrow Agent complies with any such judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, writ or other form of judicial or administrative process, the Escrow Agent shall not be liable to any of the parties hereto or to any other Person even though such order, judgment, decree, writ or process may be subsequently modified or vacated or otherwise determined to have been without legal force or effect; that the Escrow Agent shall inform each of the Transaction Parties promptly and no later than two Business Days thereafter of receipt of such order, judgment, decree, writ or process and, to the extent permitted under applicable law, will deliver to each of the Transaction Parties all relevant documents ancillary to such order, judgment, decree, writ or process so that each of the Transaction Parties may seek an appropriate protective order or pursue other legal remedies; that the Escrow Agent will not comply with such judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, writ or other form of judicial or administrative process until such time as it is, in the opinion of its counsel, legally compelled to do so.
provided
,
,
however
, , ,
provided
further
however
 
(c)           The Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted or for
any loss or injury resulting from its actions or its performance or lack of performance of its duties hereunder in the absence of bad faith, willful misconduct or gross negligence. In no event
shall the Escrow Agent be liable (i) for acting in accordance with or relying upon any instruction, notice, demand, certificate or document from each of the Transaction Parties or any Person acting on behalf of each of the Transaction Parties so long as such action is taken in accordance with the provisions of this Escrow Agreement, (ii) for the acts or omissions of its nominees, correspondents, designees, agents, subagents or subcustodians acting in accordance with the terms of this Escrow Agreement; provided that such nominees, correspondents, designees, agents, subagents or subcustodians were chosen with reasonable care by the Escrow Agent, (iii) for an amount in excess of the value of the Escrowed Funds, valued as of the date of deposit,
plus all interest, dividends and other distributions and payments thereon received by the Escrow Agent, or (iv) for any consequential, punitive, indirect or special damages.
 
(d)           The Escrow Agent may perform any of its duties hereunder by or through
agents or employees.
 
(e)           The Escrow Agent may consult with legal counsel of its own selection (at
the expense of Frontier) as to any matter relating to this Escrow Agreement, and the Escrow Agent shall not incur any liability in acting in good faith in reliance thereon.
 
(f)           The Escrow Agent shall not incur any liability for not performing any act 
or fulfilling any duty, obligation or responsibility hereunder by reason of any occurrence reasonably beyond the control of the Escrow Agent (including, but not limited to, any act or provision of any present or future law or regulation or governmental authority, any act of God, war, terrorism or other catastrophe, or the unavailability of the Federal Reserve Bank wire or telex or other wire or communication facility).
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
(g)           The Transaction Parties, with the consent of the Trustee (such consent not
to be unreasonably withheld), may remove the Escrow Agent at any time by giving to the
Escrow Agent ten (10) Business Days prior notice in writing signed by the Transaction Parties and the Trustee. The Escrow Agent may resign at any time by giving to the Company and the Trustee fifteen (15) Business Days prior written notice thereof.
 
(i)            Within seven (7) Business Days after giving the foregoing notice
of removal to the Escrow Agent or receiving the foregoing notice of resignation from the Escrow Agent, (a) Frontier shall pay, or cause to be paid, all fees, costs and expenses or other obligations owed to the Escrow Agent hereunder and (b) the Transaction Parties and the Trustee shall reasonably agree on and appoint a successor Escrow Agent. If a successor Escrow Agent has not accepted such appointment by the end of such seven-Business Day period, the Escrow Agent may, in its sole discretion, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Escrow Agent or for other appropriate relief. The costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses) incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with such proceeding shall be paid by, and be deemed an obligation of, Frontier.
 
(ii)            Upon acceptance of such appointment of the successor Escrow
Agent, the Escrow Agent shall deliver the Escrowed Funds then held hereunder to the successor Escrow Agent.
 
(iii) Upon delivery of the Escrowed Funds to such successor Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations hereunder.
 
(h)           Any Person into which the Escrow Agent may be merged or converted or
with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Escrow Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Escrow Agent, shall be the successor of the Escrow Agent hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper or any further action on the part of any of the parties hereto.
 
(i)           The Escrow Agent shall, on a monthly basis and upon the request of either
Transaction Party, provide to the Transaction Parties a statement identifying transactions, transfers or holdings of Escrowed Funds.
 
(j)           The Escrow Agent shall not be responsible in any respect for the form,
execution, validity, value or genuineness of documents, or for any description therein, or for the identity, authority or rights of Persons executing or delivering or purporting to execute or deliver any such document, security or endorsement.
 
(k)           In the event of any ambiguity or uncertainty hereunder or in any notice,
instruction or other communication received by the Escrow Agent hereunder, the Escrow Agent may, in its sole discretion, refrain from taking any action other than releasing Escrowed Funds in accordance with Section 4 hereof, unless the Escrow Agent receives joint written instructions, signed by each of the Transaction Parties and the Trustee, which eliminates such ambiguity or uncertainty.
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
(l)           The Escrow Agent and its directors, officers, employees, attorneys and
agents shall be entitled to conclusively rely on any communication, instrument or document reasonably believed by it or them to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person or Persons. Any communication, instrument or document shall be in writing and shall be given to the address set forth in the Section 10.1 (or to such other address as may be substituted therefor by written notification to the Transaction Parties). Notices to Escrow Agent shall be deemed to be given when actually received by Escrow Agent's Corporate Finance Unit of the Corporate Trust Division. Whenever under the terms hereof the time for giving a notice or performing an act falls upon a non-Business Day, such time shall be extended to the next Business Day on which the Escrow Agent is open for business.
 
(m)           In the event of any dispute between, or conflicting claims, demands or instructions by or among, any parties to this Escrow Agreement (other than the Escrow Agent) with respect to any Escrowed Funds, the Escrow Agent shall be entitled, in its sole discretion, to refuse to comply with any and all claims, demands or instructions with respect to such Escrowed Funds so long as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Escrow Agent shall not be or become liable in any way for such failure or refusal to comply with such conflicting claims, demands or instructions; provided, however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the Escrow Agent shall release the Escrowed Funds in accordance with Section 4. The Escrow Agent shall be entitled to refuse to act until, in its sole discretion, either (i) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been determined by a final order, judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, which order, judgment or decree is not subject to appeal, or settled by agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing satisfactory to the Escrow Agent or (ii) the Escrow Agent shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and against any and all Losses (as defined herein) which it may incur by reason of so acting. The Escrow Agent may, in addition, elect, in its sole discretion, to commence an interpleader action or seek other judicial relief or orders as it may deem, in its sole discretion, necessary. The costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses) incurred in connection with such proceeding shall be paid by, and shall be deemed an obligation of, Frontier.
 
(n)           The rights and remedies conferred upon the Escrow Agent and each of the
parties hereto shall be cumulative, and the exercise or waiver of any such right or remedy shall not preclude or inhibit the exercise of any additional rights or remedies. The waiver of any right or remedy hereunder shall not preclude the subsequent exercise of such right or remedy.
 
(o)           The Escrow Agent does not have any interest in the Escrowed Funds
hereunder but is serving as escrow holder only and having only possession and/or control thereof. Frontier shall pay or reimburse the Escrow Agent upon request for any transfer taxes or other taxes relating to the Escrowed Funds incurred in connection herewith and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Escrow Agent for any amounts that it is obligated to pay in the way of such taxes. Frontier shall pay or reimburse each Initial Purchaser upon request for any transfer taxes or other taxes relating to any income earned on that portion of the Escrowed Funds constituting the Initial Purchasers Discount incurred in connection herewith and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser for any amounts that it is obligated to pay in the way of such taxes. Upon execution of this Escrow Agreement, each of the parties hereto (other than Trustee) shall provide the Escrow Agent with a fully executed Internal Revenue Service Form
W-9 (or other applicable form). The parties hereto agree that (i) for tax reporting purposes, and for any tax year, all interest or other income earned under the Escrow Agreement attributable to the Gross Offering Proceeds shall be allocable to the Company and (ii) to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company will include all amounts earned under the Escrow Agreement attributable to the Gross Offering Proceeds in its gross income for federal, state and local income tax (collectively, ) purposes and pay any income tax resulting therefrom. The parties hereto agree that (i) for tax reporting purposes, and for any tax year, all interest or other income earned under the Escrow Agreement attributable to the Additional Commitments shall be allocable to Frontier and (ii) to the extent permitted by applicable law, Frontier will include all amounts earned under the Escrow Agreement attributable to the Additional Commitments in its gross income for income tax purposes and pay any income tax resulting therefrom. Any payments of income from the account established hereunder may be subject to withholding regulations then in force with respect to United States taxes. It is understood that the Escrow Agent shall be responsible for income reporting only with respect to any income which may be earned on investment of funds which are a part of the Escrowed Funds and is not responsible for any other reporting.
income tax
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
SECTION 8.
        
 
Indemnity
 
Frontier shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Escrow Agent and its directors, officers, agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, losses, actions, obligations, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses () directly or indirectly arising out of, relating to or in connection with its acceptance of its appointment hereunder or its performance as Escrow Agent (including but not limited to Losses incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with its successful defense, in whole or in part, of any claim of bad faith, willful misconduct or gross negligence on its part), that such Losses do not arise from the Escrow Agents bad faith, willful misconduct or gross negligence.
Losses
provided
 
SECTION 9.
        
 
Compensation; Expenses
 
Frontier will upon demand pay to the Escrow Agent the amount of any and all reasonable expenses, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of its counsel that the Escrow Agent may incur in connection with (a) the review, negotiation and administration of this Escrow Agreement, (b) the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights of the Escrow Agent and the Holders of the Notes hereunder or (c) the failure by any party hereto to perform or observe any of the provisions hereof. The Escrow Agents sole recourse for any payment of fees, expenses or costs is against Frontier, and the Escrow Agent has no right to sell, convey or dispose the Escrowed Funds other than in accordance with Section 4 hereof.
 
         
SECTION 10.
 
Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
10.1          
Notices
 
Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first class mail, commercial courier service or telecopier communication, addressed as follows:
 
If to the Company
:
 
New Communications Holdings Inc.
3900 Washington Street, 2nd Floor
Wilmington, DE 19802
Attn: Janet M. Garrity, Treasurer
Fax: (302) 761-4245
 
:
With copies to
 
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
919 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Attn: Steven J. Slutzky
Fax: (212) 909-6836
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
:
If to Frontier
 
Frontier Communications Corporation
3 High Ridge Park
Stamford, Connecticut 06905
Attn: Hilary E. Glassman, Esq., General Counsel
Fax: (203) 614-4602
 
:
With copies to
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Attn: Craig F. Arcella
Fax: (212) 474-3700
 
:
If to the Escrow Agent
 
The Bank of New York Mellon
101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W
New York, NY 10286
Attn: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit
Fax: (212) 815-5704
 
:
If to the Trustee
 
The Bank of New York Mellon
101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W
New York, NY 10286
Attn: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit
Fax: (212) 815-5704
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
:
If to the Initial Purchasers
 
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
Attn: Richard Gabriel
Fax: (212) 270-1063
 
:
With copies to
 
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP
767 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10153
Attn: Rod Miller
Fax: (212) 310-8007
 
Whenever under the terms hereof the time for giving a notice or performing an act falls upon a day that is not a Business Day, such time shall be extended to the next Business Day.
 
10.2         
 
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
 
Except as provided in Section 10. 8, this Escrow Agreement may not be used to interpret another pledge, security or debt agreement of the Company, Frontier or of their respective subsidiaries and no such pledge, security or debt agreement (other than the Indenture) may be used to interpret this Escrow Agreement.
 
10.3
          
Severability
 
The provisions of this Escrow Agreement are severable, and if any clause or provision shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall affect in that jurisdiction only such clause or provision, or part thereof, and shall not in any manner affect such clause or provision in any other jurisdiction or any other clause or provision of this Escrow Agreement in any jurisdiction.
 
10.4          
Headings
 
The headings in this Escrow Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
10.5          
Counterpart Originals
 
This Escrow Agreement may be signed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall together constitute one and the same agreement.
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
10.6          
Benefits of Escrow Agreement
 
This Escrow Agreement shall be binding upon each of the Transaction Parties, its transferees, successors and assigns, and shall inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Escrow Agent hereunder, to the benefit of the Escrow Agent, Trustee, Initial Purchasers, Holders and their respective successors, permitted transferees and assigns.
 
Nothing in this Escrow Agreement, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, the Holders and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Escrow Agreement.
 
10.7         
Amendments, Waivers and Consents
 
Any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Escrow Agreement and any consent to any departure by the Transaction Parties from any provision of this Escrow Agreement shall be effective only if made or duly given with the written consent of the Escrow Agent, the Trustee and each of the Transaction Parties; that any amendment or waiver of any provision of the Escrow Agreement and any consent to any departure by any of the Transaction Parties from any provision of this Escrow Agreement that would reduce the amount distributable to the Initial Purchasers upon release of the Escrowed Funds pursuant to Section 4(a) and 4(b) hereof shall be effective only if made or duly given with the written consent of the Representative. None of the Escrow Agent, the Trustee, the Representative or any Holder shall be deemed, by any act, delay, indulgence, omission or otherwise, to have waived any right or remedy hereunder or to have acquiesced in any default of any obligation or in any breach of any of the terms and conditions hereof. Failure of the Escrow Agent, the Trustee, the Representative or any Holder to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right, power or privilege hereunder shall not preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Escrow Agent, the Trustee, the Representative or any Holder of any right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to any right or remedy that the Escrow Agent, the Trustee, the Representative or such Holder would otherwise have on any future occasion. The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
provided, however,
 
10.8          
Interpretation of Agreement
 
To the extent a term or provision of this Escrow Agreement (other than Sections 7, 8 and 9 hereof) conflicts with the Indenture, the Indenture shall control with respect to the subject matter of such term or provision. Acceptance of or acquiescence in a course of performance rendered under this Escrow Agreement shall not be relevant to determine the meaning of this Escrow Agreement even though the accepting or acquiescing party had knowledge of the nature of the performance and opportunity for objection. Regardless of any provision in any such customer agreement, the State of New York shall be deemed to be the Escrow Agents location for purposes of this Escrow Agreement.
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
10.9         
Termination
 
(a)        This Escrow Agreement shall, unless otherwise provided in the Indenture or in this Escrow Agreement, remain in full force and effect.
 
(b)        This Escrow Agreement shall terminate immediately upon (i) the disbursement of the Escrowed Funds in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) or (ii) the disbursement of the Escrowed Funds in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(c). The Escrow Agent further agrees to execute and deliver such documents, instruments or other agreements as the Transaction Parties or the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request (all at the expense of the Transaction Parties) to evidence the release and terminations contemplated in this Section 10.9.
 
10.10        
Survival Provisions
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, (a) all representations, warranties and covenants of each of the Transaction Parties contained herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Escrow Agreement, and shall terminate only upon the termination of this Escrow Agreement, and (b) the obligations of Frontier under Sections 8 and 9 hereof shall survive the termination of this Escrow Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Escrow Agent.
 
10.11          
Waivers
 
The Transaction Parties waive presentment and demand for payment of the Special Redemption Obligations, protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Special Redemption Obligations, and all other notices to which the Transaction Parties might otherwise be entitled, except as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the Indenture.
 
10.12          
Authority of the Escrow Agent
 
The Escrow Agent shall have and be entitled to exercise all powers hereunder that are specifically granted to the Escrow Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incident thereto.
 
10.13          
Final Expression
 
This Escrow Agreement, together with the terms of the Indenture expressly referred to herein, is intended by the parties as a final expression of this Escrow Agreement and is intended as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms and conditions thereof.
 
10.14          
Rights of Holders
 
No Holder shall have any independent rights hereunder other than those rights granted to individual Holders pursuant to the applicable sections of the Indenture; that nothing in this subsection shall limit any rights granted to the Escrow Agent under the Notes or the Indenture.
provided
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
10.15          
GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF
JURY TRIAL
 
THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT AND THE ESCROW ACCOUNT WILL BE
INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED, ENFORCED AND ADMINISTERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HEREBY SUBMIT TO THE PERSONAL JURISDICTION OF, AND EACH AGREES THAT ALL PROCEEDINGS RELATING HERETO WILL BE BROUGHT IN COURTS LOCATED WITHIN, THE CITY AND STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY SUCH LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT. EACH OF THE PARTIES (OTHER THAN THE TRUSTEE AND THE ESCROW AGENT) WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF PROCESS AND CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY CERTIFIED OR REGISTERED MAIL, RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED, DIRECTED TO IT AT THE ADDRESS LAST SPECIFIED FOR NOTICES HEREUNDER, AND SUCH SERVICE WILL BE DEEMED COMPLETED TEN (10) CALENDAR DAYS AFTER THE SAME IS SO MAILED.
 
10.16          
Payments to the Initial Purchasers
 
The Escrow Agent shall make all payments owing to the Initial Purchasers hereunder to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as per the following wire payment instructions:
 
Bank Name: JP Morgan Chase Bank
ABA #: 021-000-021
F/A/O: JPMSI
Account #: 066-916402
Attn.: Joel Ferrari
Reference: Frontier Communications Corporation / New Communications Holdings Inc.
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, Frontier, the Trustee, the Escrow Agent and the Representative have each caused this Escrow Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________ ___, 2010
 
This certificate is being delivered pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Escrow Agreement dated as of April 12, 2010 (the ), among New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Escrow Agent (the ), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee under the Indenture referred to in the Escrow Agreement (the ) and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (), as the representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined in the Escrow Agreement) (collectively, the ). Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings specified in Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Agreement
Company
Frontier
Escrow Agent
Trustee
Representative
Initial Purchasers
 
 _________________, on behalf of the Company and not in a personal
capacity, hereby certifies to Frontier, the Escrow Agent, the Trustee and the Representative and directs the Escrow Agent as follows:
 
1.            The Spin-Off is expected to be consummated substantially as
described in the Offering Memorandum promptly upon release of the Escrowed Funds.
 
2.            The Merger is expected be consummated substantially as described
in the Offering Memorandum promptly following the consummation of the Spin-Off.
 
3.            The Company hereby directs the Escrow Agent to disburse the
Escrowed Funds as instructed below.
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
Disbursement Instructions:
 
The Net Offering Proceeds shall be disbursed in accordance with the Companys written direction, delivered separately to the Escrow Agent.
 
_________________, on behalf of Frontier and not in a personal
capacity, hereby certifies to the Company, the Escrow Agent, the Trustee and the Representative and directs the Escrow Agent as follows:
 
1.            The Merger is expected to be consummated substantially as
described in the Offering Memorandum promptly following the consummation of the Spin-Off.
 
The Company and Frontier may execute this certificate in counterparts.
 
[Signature page follows]
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Company and Frontier, through its respective undersigned officer, has signed this officers certificate as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature page follows]
 
 
22
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
 
 
________________ ___, 2010
 
This certificate is being delivered pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Escrow Agreement dated as of April 12, 2010 (the ), among New Communications Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Escrow Agent (the ), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee under the Indenture referred to in the Escrow Agreement (the ) and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (), as the representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined in the Escrow Agreement) (collectively, the ). Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings specified in Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Agreement
Company
Frontier
Escrow Agent
Trustee
Representative
Initial Purchasers
 
 _________________, on behalf of Frontier and not in a personal capacity,
does hereby certify to the Escrow Agent, the Trustee and the Representative that, as of  the date hereof, the Merger has been consummated substantially as described in the Offering Memorandum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Frontier, through the undersigned officer, has signed this officer's certificate as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
 
[NEW COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS INC.] [FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION]
 
________________ ___, 2010
 
This certificate is being delivered pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Escrow Agreement dated as of April 12, 2010 (the ), among New Communications Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Escrow Agent (the ), The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee under the Indenture referred to in the Escrow Agreement (the ) and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (), as the representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined in the Escrow Agreement) (collectively, the ). Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings specified in Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Agreement
Company
Frontier
Escrow Agent
Trustee
Representative
Initial Purchasers
 
_________________, on behalf of [the Company] [Frontier] and not in a
personal capacity, hereby certifies to [the Company] [Frontier], the Escrow Agent, the Trustee and the Representative and directs the Escrow Agent as follows:
 
The Merger Agreement was terminated pursuant to its terms on [          ].
 
 
 
[Signature page follows]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, [the Company][Frontier], through the undersigned officer, has signed this officers certificate as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated April 12, 2010 (this Agreement) is entered into by and among Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Frontier), and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the Representative), as representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) (the Initial Purchasers).
New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (NCHI), Frontier and the Representative are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 2010 (the Purchase Agreement), which provides for the sale by NCHI to the Initial Purchasers of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of NCHIs 7.875% Senior Notes due 2015 (the Securities).  As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, Frontier has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.           .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Business Day shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Escrow Agent shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement (as defined herein).
Escrow Agreement shall mean the Escrow Agreement entered into as of April 12, 2010, among NCHI, Frontier, the Trustee, the Escrow Agent and the Representative.
Escrowed Funds shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement.
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Dates shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Offer shall mean the exchange offer by Frontier of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
 
1
 
Exchange Offer Registration shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Securities shall mean senior notes issued by Frontier under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Free Writing Prospectus means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of Frontier or used or referred to by Frontier in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Frontier shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Holders shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term Holders shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Indemnified Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indenture shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of April 12, 2010 between NCHI and the Trustee, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Initial Purchasers shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Inspector shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof.
Issuer Information shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
 
 
2
 
Majority Holders shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by Frontier or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and provided, further, that if Frontier shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
NCHI shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Offering Memorandum means the Final Offering Memorandum, dated March 26, 2010, relating to the offering of the Securities to the Holders.
Participating Broker-Dealers shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Person shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Prospectus shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Purchase Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Registrable Securities shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the earliest to occur of (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement or (ii) when such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (iii) the date that is two years following the Release Date, or (iv) when such Securities cease to be outstanding.
 
 
3
 
Registration Expenses shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by Frontier with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for Frontier and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of Frontier, including the expenses of any special audits or comfort letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Statement shall mean any registration statement of Frontier that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Release Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Representative shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
SEC shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities Act shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
 
4
 
Shelf Additional Interest Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement shall mean a shelf registration statement of Frontier that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority of the Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Request shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Staff shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Target Registration Date shall mean the date that is 270 days after the Release Date.
Transactions shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Offering Memorandum.
Trust Indenture Act shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trustee shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Underwriter shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwritten Offering shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
2.           .  (a)  If the Escrowed Funds are released to fund the Transactions in accordance with Section 4(a) and 4(b) of the Escrow Agreement (the date of such release, the Release Date), to the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause to be filed within 90 days of the Release Date an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (ii) have such Registration Statement remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers.  Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
 
 
5
 
Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to Frontier that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an affiliate (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of Frontier and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
 
 
6
 
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, Frontier shall:
Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b)         In the event that (i) Frontier determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a Shelf Request) from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective.
In the event that Frontier is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
 
 
7
 
Frontier agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the expiration of the period that will terminate when all the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the Shelf Effectiveness Period).  Frontier further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by Frontier for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable.  Frontier agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities (or file on EDGAR) copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
(c)         Frontier shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holders Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)         An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.  A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
In the event that either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Exchange Offer is completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.  In the event that Frontier receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of the date that is five months after the Release Date and (y) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the Shelf Additional Interest Date), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.
 
 
8
 
If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period and (ii)an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum, commencing on the 31 day in such 12-month period and ending on such date that the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable, as the case may be.
st
(e)           Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, Frontier acknowledges that any failure by Frontier to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce Frontiers obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
(f)           Frontier represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus.
3.           .  (a) In connection with its obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, Frontier shall as expeditiously as reasonably possible:
Registration Procedures
(i)          prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by Frontier, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(ii)         prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
 
 
9
 
(iii)        in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and Frontier consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(iv)        use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; that Frontier shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
(v)         notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement or Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by Frontier of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of Frontier contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if Frontier receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by Frontier that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
 
 
10
 
(vi)        use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2), including by filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(vii)       in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(viii)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(ix)         in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and Frontier shall notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until Frontier has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(x)          a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of Frontier as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and Frontier shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) shall object within five (5) Business Days of receipt of such copy;
(xi)         obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
 
 
11
 
(xii)        cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xiii)       in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities (an Inspector), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority of the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of Frontier and its subsidiaries, and cause the officers, directors and employees of Frontier to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by Frontier as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter) (including, with respect to any Holder or Inspector, if reasonably requested by Frontier, the execution of a customary confidentiality agreement);
provided
(xiv)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv)       if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after Frontier has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
(xvi)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of Frontier and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to Frontier (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance similar to that provided in the Purchase
 
 
12
 
 
Agreement, as modified for a registered offering, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain comfort letters from the independent certified public accountants of Frontier (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of Frontier, or of any business acquired by Frontier for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of Frontier made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement;
(b)         In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, Frontier may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to Frontier such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as Frontier may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c)         In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities covered in such Shelf Registration Statement agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from Frontier of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(v)(3) or 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or use of the Prospectus until such Holders receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(ix) hereof and, if so directed by Frontier, such Holder will deliver to Frontier all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holders possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
(d)         If Frontier shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, Frontier shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Frontier may give any such notice only twice during any 365-day period and any such suspensions shall not exceed 30 days for each suspension and there shall not be more than two suspensions in effect during any 365-day period.
 
 
13
 
(e)         The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering.  In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an Underwriter) that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering.
4.           .  (a)  The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a Participating Broker-Dealer) may be deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Frontier understands that it is the Staffs position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)         In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, Frontier agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above.  Frontier further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
(c)         The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to Frontier or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
 
 
14
 
5.           .  (a)  Frontier agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus used in violation of this Agreement or any issuer information (Issuer Information) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser, or information relating to any Holder furnished to Frontier in writing through the Representative, or any selling Holder, respectively expressly for use therein.  In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, Frontier will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Indemnification and Contribution
(b)         Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless Frontier, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of Frontier, each officer of Frontier who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls Frontier, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to Frontier in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus.
 
 
15
 
(c)         If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the Indemnified Person) shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the Indemnifying Person) in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representative, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by Frontier.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment if such loss or liability is subject to indemnification by the Indemnifying Person pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) such Indemnifying Person shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement unless such Indemnifying Person has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the Indemnifying Person.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
provided
further
 
 
16
 
(d)         If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by Frontier from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by Frontier or by the Holders and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(e)         Frontier and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f)          The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g)         The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of Frontier or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling Frontier, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
 
 
17
 
6.           .
General
(a)          Frontier represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier under any other agreement and (ii) Frontier has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will not enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.  
(b)          The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless Frontier has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.  Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.  
provided
(c)           All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to Frontier by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to Frontier, initially at Frontiers address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).  All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.  Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d)         This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.  The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to Frontier with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
 
18
 
(e)           Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between Frontier, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f)          This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g)         The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.  
(h)         This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.  
(j)             This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.  Frontier and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
 
 
19
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement  2015 Notes]
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
For itself and on behalf of the
 several Initial Purchasers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement  2015 Notes]
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated April 12, 2010 (this Agreement) is entered into by and among Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Frontier), and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the Representative), as representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) (the Initial Purchasers).
New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (NCHI), Frontier and the Representative are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 2010 (the Purchase Agreement), which provides for the sale by NCHI to the Initial Purchasers of $1,100,000,000 aggregate principal amount of NCHIs 8.250% Senior Notes due 2017 (the Securities).  As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, Frontier has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.           .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Business Day shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Escrow Agent shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement (as defined herein).
Escrow Agreement shall mean the Escrow Agreement entered into as of April 12, 2010, among NCHI, Frontier, the Trustee, the Escrow Agent and the Representative.
Escrowed Funds shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement.
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Dates shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Offer shall mean the exchange offer by Frontier of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
 
 
1
 
Exchange Offer Registration shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Securities shall mean senior notes issued by Frontier under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Free Writing Prospectus means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of Frontier or used or referred to by Frontier in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Frontier shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Holders shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term Holders shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Indemnified Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indenture shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of April 12, 2010 between NCHI and the Trustee, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Initial Purchasers shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Inspector shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof.
Issuer Information shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
 
 
 
2
 
Majority Holders shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by Frontier or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and provided, further, that if Frontier shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
NCHI shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Offering Memorandum means the Final Offering Memorandum, dated March 26, 2010, relating to the offering of the Securities to the Holders.
Participating Broker-Dealers shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Person shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Prospectus shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Purchase Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Registrable Securities shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the earliest to occur of (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement or (ii) when such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (iii) the date that is two years following the Release Date, or (iv) when such Securities cease to be outstanding.
 
 
3
 
Registration Expenses shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by Frontier with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for Frontier and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of Frontier, including the expenses of any special audits or comfort letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Statement shall mean any registration statement of Frontier that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Release Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Representative shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
SEC shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
 Securities Act shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
 
4
 
Shelf Additional Interest Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement shall mean a shelf registration statement of Frontier that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority of the Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Request shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Staff shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Target Registration Date shall mean the date that is 270 days after the Release Date.
Transactions shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Offering Memorandum.
Trust Indenture Act shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trustee shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Underwriter shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwritten Offering shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
2.           .  (a)  If the Escrowed Funds are released to fund the Transactions in accordance with Section 4(a) and 4(b) of the Escrow Agreement (the date of such release, the Release Date), to the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause to be filed within 90 days of the Release Date an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (ii) have such Registration Statement remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers.  Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
 
 
5
 
Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
 
 
6
 
 
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to Frontier that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an affiliate (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of Frontier and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, Frontier shall:
Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b)           In the event that (i) Frontier determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a Shelf Request) from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective.
 
 
7
 
In the event that Frontier is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
Frontier agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the expiration of the period that will terminate when all the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the "Shelf Effectiveness Period").  Frontier further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by Frontier for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable.  Frontier agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities (or file on EDGAR) copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
(c)           Frontier shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holders Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)           An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.  A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
In the event that either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Exchange Offer is completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.  In the event that Frontier receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of the date that is five months after the Release Date and (y) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the Shelf Additional Interest Date), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.
 
 
8
 
If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period and (ii)an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum, commencing on the 31 day in such 12-month period and ending on such date that the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable, as the case may be.
st
(e)           Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, Frontier acknowledges that any failure by Frontier to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce Frontiers obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
(f)           Frontier represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus.
3.           .  (a) In connection with its obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, Frontier shall as expeditiously as reasonably possible:
Registration Procedures
(i)           prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by Frontier, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
 
 
9
 
(ii)           prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and Frontier consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(iv)           use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; that Frontier shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
 
 
10
 
(v)           notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement or Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by Frontier of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of Frontier contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if Frontier receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by Frontier that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vi)           use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2), including by filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(vii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(viii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
 
 
11
 
(ix)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and Frontier shall notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until Frontier has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(x)           a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of Frontier as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and Frontier shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) shall object within five (5) Business Days of receipt of such copy;
(xi)           obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
 
 
12
 
(xii)           cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xiii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities (an Inspector), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority of the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of Frontier and its subsidiaries, and cause the officers, directors and employees of Frontier to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by Frontier as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter) (including, with respect to any Holder or Inspector, if reasonably requested by Frontier, the execution of a customary confidentiality agreement);
provided
(xiv)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv)           if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after Frontier has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
 
 
13
 
(xvi)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of Frontier and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to Frontier (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance similar to that provided in the Purchase Agreement, as modified for a registered offering, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain comfort letters from the independent certified public accountants of Frontier (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of Frontier, or of any business acquired by Frontier for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of Frontier made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement;
 
(b)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, Frontier may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to Frontier such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as Frontier may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities covered in such Shelf Registration Statement agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from Frontier of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(v)(3) or 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or use of the Prospectus until such Holders receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(ix) hereof and, if so directed by Frontier, such Holder will deliver to Frontier all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holders possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
 
14
 
(d)           If Frontier shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, Frontier shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Frontier may give any such notice only twice during any 365-day period and any such suspensions shall not exceed 30 days for each suspension and there shall not be more than two suspensions in effect during any 365-day period.
(e)           The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering.  In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an Underwriter) that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering.
4.           .  (a)  The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a Participating Broker-Dealer) may be deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Frontier understands that it is the Staffs position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)           In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, Frontier agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above.  Frontier further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
 
 
15
 
(c)           The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to Frontier or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
5.           .  (a)  Frontier agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus used in violation of this Agreement or any issuer information (Issuer Information) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser, or information relating to any Holder furnished to Frontier in writing through the Representative, or any selling Holder, respectively expressly for use therein.  In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, Frontier will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Indemnification and Contribution
(b)           Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless Frontier, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of Frontier, each officer of Frontier who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls Frontier, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to Frontier in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus.
 
 
16
 
(c)           If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the Indemnified Person) shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the Indemnifying Person) in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representative, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by Frontier.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment if such loss or liability is subject to indemnification by the Indemnifying Person pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) such Indemnifying Person shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement unless such Indemnifying Person has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the Indemnifying Person.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
provided
further
 
(d)           If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by Frontier from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by Frontier or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
 
17
 
(e)           Frontier and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f)           The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g)           The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of Frontier or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling Frontier, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6.           .
General
(a)            Frontier represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier under any other agreement and (ii) Frontier has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will not enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.  
 
 
18
 
(b)            The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless Frontier has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.  Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.  
provided
(c)             All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to Frontier by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to Frontier, initially at Frontiers address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).  All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.  Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d)           This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.  The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to Frontier with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
 
19
 
(e)             Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between Frontier, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f)            This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g)           The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.  
(h)           This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.  
(j)             This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.  Frontier and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
 
 
20
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement - 2017 Notes]
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement - 2017 Notes]
 

Exhibit 4.4
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated April 12, 2010 (this Agreement) is entered into by and among Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Frontier), and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the Representative), as representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) (the Initial Purchasers).
New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (NCHI), Frontier and the Representative are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 2010 (the Purchase Agreement), which provides for the sale by NCHI to the Initial Purchasers of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of NCHIs 8.500% Senior Notes due 2020 (the Securities).  As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, Frontier has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.           .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Business Day shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Escrow Agent shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement (as defined herein).
Escrow Agreement shall mean the Escrow Agreement entered into as of April 12, 2010, among NCHI, Frontier, the Trustee, the Escrow Agent and the Representative.
Escrowed Funds shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement.
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Dates shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Offer shall mean the exchange offer by Frontier of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Exchange Offer Registration shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Securities shall mean senior notes issued by Frontier under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Free Writing Prospectus means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of Frontier or used or referred to by Frontier in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Frontier shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Holders shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term Holders shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Indemnified Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indenture shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of April 12, 2010 between NCHI and the Trustee, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Initial Purchasers shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Inspector shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof.
Issuer Information shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Majority Holders shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by Frontier or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and provided, further, that if Frontier shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
NCHI shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Offering Memorandum means the Final Offering Memorandum, dated March 26, 2010, relating to the offering of the Securities to the Holders.
Participating Broker-Dealers shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Person shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Prospectus shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Purchase Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Registrable Securities shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the earliest to occur of (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement or (ii) when such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (iii) the date that is two years following the Release Date, or (iv) when such Securities cease to be outstanding.
 
 
 
3
 
 
Registration Expenses shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by Frontier with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for Frontier and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of Frontier, including the expenses of any special audits or comfort letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Statement shall mean any registration statement of Frontier that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Release Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Representative shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
SEC shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
 Securities Act shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
4
 
 
Shelf Additional Interest Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement shall mean a shelf registration statement of Frontier that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority of the Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Request shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Staff shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Target Registration Date shall mean the date that is 270 days after the Release Date.
Transactions shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Offering Memorandum.
Trust Indenture Act shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trustee shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Underwriter shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwritten Offering shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
2.           .  (a)  If the Escrowed Funds are released to fund the Transactions in accordance with Section 4(a) and 4(b) of the Escrow Agreement (the date of such release, the Release Date), to the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause to be filed within 90 days of the Release Date an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (ii) have such Registration Statement remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers.  Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to Frontier that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an affiliate (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of Frontier and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
 
 
 
6
 
 
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, Frontier shall:
Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b)           In the event that (i) Frontier determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a Shelf Request) from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective.
In the event that Frontier is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
 
 
 
7
 
 
Frontier agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the expiration of the period that will terminate when all the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the Shelf Effectiveness Period).  Frontier further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by Frontier for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable.  Frontier agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities (or file on EDGAR) copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
(c)           Frontier shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holders Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)           An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.  A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
In the event that either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Exchange Offer is completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.  In the event that Frontier receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of the date that is five months after the Release Date and (y) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the Shelf Additional Interest Date), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period and (ii)an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum, commencing on the 31 day in such 12-month period and ending on such date that the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable, as the case may be.
st
(e)           Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, Frontier acknowledges that any failure by Frontier to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce Frontiers obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
(f)           Frontier represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus.
3.           .  (a) In connection with its obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, Frontier shall as expeditiously as reasonably possible:
Registration Procedures
(i)           prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by Frontier, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
(ii)           prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and Frontier consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(iv)           use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; that Frontier shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
 
 
 
10
 
 
(v)           notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement or Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by Frontier of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of Frontier contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if Frontier receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by Frontier that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vi)           use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2), including by filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(vii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(viii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
 
 
 
11
 
 
(ix)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and Frontier shall notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until Frontier has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(x)           a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of Frontier as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and Frontier shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) shall object within five (5) Business Days of receipt of such copy;
(xi)           obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
 
 
 
12
 
 
(xii)           cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xiii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities (an Inspector), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority of the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of Frontier and its subsidiaries, and cause the officers, directors and employees of Frontier to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by Frontier as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter) (including, with respect to any Holder or Inspector, if reasonably requested by Frontier, the execution of a customary confidentiality agreement);
provided
(xiv)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv)           if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after Frontier has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
 
 
 
13
 
 
(xvi)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of Frontier and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to Frontier (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance similar to that provided in the Purchase Agreement, as modified for a registered offering, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain comfort letters from the independent certified public accountants of Frontier (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of Frontier, or of any business acquired by Frontier for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of Frontier made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement;
 
(b)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, Frontier may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to Frontier such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as Frontier may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities covered in such Shelf Registration Statement agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from Frontier of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(v)(3) or 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or use of the Prospectus until such Holders receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(ix) hereof and, if so directed by Frontier, such Holder will deliver to Frontier all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holders possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
 
 
14
 
 
(d)           If Frontier shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, Frontier shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Frontier may give any such notice only twice during any 365-day period and any such suspensions shall not exceed 30 days for each suspension and there shall not be more than two suspensions in effect during any 365-day period.
(e)           The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering.  In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an Underwriter) that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering.
4.           .  (a)  The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a Participating Broker-Dealer) may be deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Frontier understands that it is the Staffs position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)           In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, Frontier agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above.  Frontier further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
 
 
 
15
 
 
(c)           The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to Frontier or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
5.           .  (a)  Frontier agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus used in violation of this Agreement or any issuer information (Issuer Information) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser, or information relating to any Holder furnished to Frontier in writing through the Representative, or any selling Holder, respectively expressly for use therein.  In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, Frontier will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Indemnification and Contribution
(b)           Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless Frontier, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of Frontier, each officer of Frontier who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls Frontier, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to Frontier in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus.
 
 
 
16
 
 
(c)           If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the Indemnified Person) shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the Indemnifying Person) in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representative, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by Frontier.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment if such loss or liability is subject to indemnification by the Indemnifying Person pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) such Indemnifying Person shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement unless such Indemnifying Person has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the Indemnifying Person.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
provided
further
 
 
 
17
 
 
(d)           If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by Frontier from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by Frontier or by the Holders and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
 
 
18
 
 
(e)           Frontier and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f)           The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g)           The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of Frontier or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling Frontier, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6.           .
General
(a)            Frontier represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier under any other agreement and (ii) Frontier has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will not enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.  
 
 
 
19
 
 
(b)            The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless Frontier has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.  Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.  
provided
(c)             All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to Frontier by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to Frontier, initially at Frontiers address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).  All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.  Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d)           This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.  The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to Frontier with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
 
 
20
 
 
(e)             Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between Frontier, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f)            This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g)           The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.  
(h)           This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.  
(j)             This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.  Frontier and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
 
21
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement - 2020 Notes]
 
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Registration Rights Agreement - 2020 Notes]
 
 

Exhibit 4.5
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated April 12, 2010 (this Agreement) is entered into by and among Frontier Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Frontier), and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the Representative), as representative of the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) (the Initial Purchasers).
New Communications Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (NCHI), Frontier and the Representative are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 2010 (the Purchase Agreement), which provides for the sale by NCHI to the Initial Purchasers of $1,100,000,000 aggregate principal amount of NCHIs 8.750% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Securities).  As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, Frontier has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.           .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Business Day shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Escrow Agent shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement (as defined herein).
Escrow Agreement shall mean the Escrow Agreement entered into as of April 12, 2010, among NCHI, Frontier, the Trustee, the Escrow Agent and the Representative.
Escrowed Funds shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Escrow Agreement.
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Dates shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Offer shall mean the exchange offer by Frontier of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
1
 
Exchange Offer Registration shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Securities shall mean senior notes issued by Frontier under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Free Writing Prospectus means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of Frontier or used or referred to by Frontier in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Frontier shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Holders shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term Holders shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Indemnified Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indenture shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of April 12, 2010 between NCHI and the Trustee, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Initial Purchasers shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Inspector shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof.
Issuer Information shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
 
2
 
Majority Holders shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by Frontier or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and provided, further, that if Frontier shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
NCHI shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Offering Memorandum means the Final Offering Memorandum, dated March 26, 2010, relating to the offering of the Securities to the Holders.
Participating Broker-Dealers shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Person shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Prospectus shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Purchase Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Registrable Securities shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the earliest to occur of (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement or (ii) when such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (iii) the date that is two years following the Release Date, or (iv) when such Securities cease to be outstanding.
 
3
 
Registration Expenses shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by Frontier with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for Frontier and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of Frontier, including the expenses of any special audits or comfort letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Statement shall mean any registration statement of Frontier that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Release Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Representative shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
SEC shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities Act shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
4
 
Shelf Additional Interest Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement shall mean a shelf registration statement of Frontier that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority of the Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Request shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Staff shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Target Registration Date shall mean the date that is 270 days after the Release Date.
Transactions shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Offering Memorandum.
Trust Indenture Act shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trustee shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Underwriter shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwritten Offering shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
2.           .  (a)  If the Escrowed Funds are released to fund the Transactions in accordance with Section 4(a) and 4(b) of the Escrow Agreement (the date of such release, the Release Date), to the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause to be filed within 90 days of the Release Date an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (ii) have such Registration Statement remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers.  Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
 
5
 
Frontier shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to Frontier that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an affiliate (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of Frontier and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
 
6
 
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, Frontier shall:
Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b)           In the event that (i) Frontier determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a Shelf Request) from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective.
In the event that Frontier is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, Frontier shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
 
7
 
Frontier agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the expiration of the period that will terminate when all the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the "Shelf Effectiveness Period").  Frontier further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by Frontier for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable.  Frontier agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities (or file on EDGAR) copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
(c)           Frontier shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holders Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)           An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.  A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
In the event that either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Exchange Offer is completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.  In the event that Frontier receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of the date that is five months after the Release Date and (y) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the Shelf Additional Interest Date), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum.
 
8
 
If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period and (ii)an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum, commencing on the 31 day in such 12-month period and ending on such date that the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable, as the case may be.
st
(e)           Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, Frontier acknowledges that any failure by Frontier to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce Frontiers obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
(f)           Frontier represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus.
3.           .  (a) In connection with its obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, Frontier shall as expeditiously as reasonably possible:
Registration Procedures
(i)           prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by Frontier, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
 
9
 
(ii)           prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and Frontier consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(iv)           use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; that Frontier shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
 
10
 
(v)           notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement or Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by Frontier of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of Frontier contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if Frontier receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by Frontier that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vi)           use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2), including by filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(vii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(viii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
 
11
 
(ix)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and Frontier shall notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until Frontier has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(x)           a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of Frontier as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and Frontier shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) shall object within five (5) Business Days of receipt of such copy;
(xi)           obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
 
12
 
(xii)           cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xiii)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities (an Inspector), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority of the Holders of Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of Frontier and its subsidiaries, and cause the officers, directors and employees of Frontier to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by Frontier as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter) (including, with respect to any Holder or Inspector, if reasonably requested by Frontier, the execution of a customary confidentiality agreement);
provided
(xiv)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv)           if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after Frontier has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
 
13
 
(xvi)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of Frontier and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to Frontier (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance similar to that provided in the Purchase Agreement, as modified for a registered offering, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain comfort letters from the independent certified public accountants of Frontier (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of Frontier, or of any business acquired by Frontier for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of Frontier made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement;
(b)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, Frontier may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to Frontier such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as Frontier may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c)           In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities covered in such Shelf Registration Statement agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from Frontier of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(v)(3) or 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or use of the Prospectus until such Holders receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(ix) hereof and, if so directed by Frontier, such Holder will deliver to Frontier all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holders possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
14
 
(d)           If Frontier shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, Frontier shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Frontier may give any such notice only twice during any 365-day period and any such suspensions shall not exceed 30 days for each suspension and there shall not be more than two suspensions in effect during any 365-day period.
(e)           The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering.  In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an Underwriter) that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering.
4.           .  (a)  The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a Participating Broker-Dealer) may be deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Frontier understands that it is the Staffs position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)           In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, Frontier agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above.  Frontier further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
 
15
 
(c)           The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to Frontier or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
5.           .  (a)  Frontier agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus used in violation of this Agreement or any issuer information (Issuer Information) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser, or information relating to any Holder furnished to Frontier in writing through the Representative, or any selling Holder, respectively expressly for use therein.  In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, Frontier will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Indemnification and Contribution
(b)           Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless Frontier, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of Frontier, each officer of Frontier who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls Frontier, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to Frontier in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus.
 
16
 
(c)           If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the Indemnified Person) shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the Indemnifying Person) in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representative, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by Frontier.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment if such loss or liability is subject to indemnification by the Indemnifying Person pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) such Indemnifying Person shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement unless such Indemnifying Person has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the Indemnifying Person.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
provided
further
 
17
 
(d)           If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by Frontier from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of Frontier on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by Frontier or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
18
 
(e)           Frontier and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f)           The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g)           The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of Frontier or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling Frontier, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6.           .
General
(a)           Frontier represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by Frontier under any other agreement and (ii) Frontier has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will not enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
 
19
 
(b)           The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless Frontier has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.  Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.
provided
(c)             All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to Frontier by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to Frontier, initially at Frontiers address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).  All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.  Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d)           This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.  The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to Frontier with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
20
 
(e)             Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between Frontier, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f)            This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g)           The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.  
(h)           This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.  
(j)             This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.  Frontier and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
21
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:


