FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20100804172046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Frontier Communications Corporation (the Company) approved certain changes to the compensation of the Companys current named executive officers following the closing of the Companys acquisition of local wireline operations from Verizon Communications Inc. in 14 states on July 1, 2010.  With the addition of the Verizon lines, which tripled the size of the Company, the Company now has approximately 6 million access lines, 1.7 million broadband connections and 14,800 employees in 27 states.  On a pro forma basis, the combined companys revenues would have been approximately $6.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
The Committee approved base salary increases for each of the named executive officers, other than Mary Agnes Wilderotter, the Companys Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, effective August 1, 2010, to reflect the materially increased size of the Company and the resulting increased scope, responsibility and complexity of the officers roles following the Verizon transaction.  In conjunction with these increases, the Committee determined that the named executive officers would not be awarded merit increases to their base salaries in 2011.
 
The Committee also approved retention and transaction bonuses for the named executive officers in connection with the successful closing of the Verizon transaction based on the contributions the officers made in achieving key milestones towards the closing of the Verizon transaction, including due diligence, shareholder approval, financing, system cut-overs, and regulatory approvals from states, local franchise authorities and the Federal Communications Commission.  The bonuses also reflect executive officer contributions to the strategic alternatives process used to chart the future direction of the Company that pre-dated the Verizon transaction.  The retention and transaction bonuses for the named executive officers other than Mrs. Wilderotter will be paid one-half in cash in August 2010 and one-half in restricted s tock, provided that each such officer will have the option of electing to receive all or any part of the cash portion of the bonus in unrestricted shares of Company common stock.  For Mrs. Wilderotter, the bonus will be paid $750,000 in cash in August 2010 and $2.0 million in restricted stock.
 
The restricted stock portion of the bonuses serves as a retention tool for each of these officers.  The restrictions on these stock grants will lapse one-third each year beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant (July 29, 2010).  This aligns the vesting schedule of the restricted stock portion of the bonus with the Companys integration timeline for the acquired properties.
 
The salary increases and bonus awards for each named executive officer, other than Mrs. Wilderotter, were approved by the Compensation Committee based in part upon recommendations from Mrs. Wilderotter and the Committees own assessment of the contributions of each of the officers.  With respect to the retention and transaction bonus awarded to Mrs. Wilderotter, the Compensation Committee reviewed its recommendation with the other non-management directors before finalizing its decision.
 
 
 
 
The salaries and retention and transaction bonus awards for the Companys named executive officers were as follows:
 
 
-------------------
(1)    Includes increases as discussed above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


