FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20100520170520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
The information set forth in the press release issued by Frontier Communications Corporation on May 20, 2010, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Frontier Communications
3 High Ridge Park
Stamford, CT 06905
203.614.5600
www.frontier.com
 
 
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE:FTR) is scheduled to participate in the upcoming Barclays Global Communications, Media, and Technology Conference in New York, NY.  Maggie Wilderotter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Donald Shassian, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, are scheduled to present on Wednesday, May 26, 2010, at 2:15 p.m. Eastern time.
Stamford, Conn.  May 20, 2010 
A live webcast of the presentation will be available at on the Investor Relations page under Webcasts & Presentations.
www.frontier.com
 
 
About Frontier Communications
 
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) is a full-service communications provider and one of the largest local exchange telephone companies in the country serving rural areas and small and medium-sized towns and cities. Frontier is included in the S&P 500 Index. Frontier Communications offers telephone, television and Internet services, including wireless Internet data access, as well as bundled offerings, specialized bundles for small businesses and home offices, and data security solutions. Additional information about Frontier is available at .
www.frontier.com
 
 
 


