FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20110404115750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
 
 
Susana DEmic has been appointed to the position of Senior Vice President and Controller of Frontier Communications Corporation (the Company) and will serve as the Companys designated Chief Accounting Officer, effective April 15, 2011.
 
Robert J. Larson, Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, will be relinquishing the Chief Accounting Officer position on April 15, 2011, but will remain with the Company until May 5, 2011 to assist with the transition of responsibilities.
 
Ms. DEmic, 47, was with Readers Digest Association since January 1998, most recently as Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2007 and prior to that as Vice President, North American Controller since May 2003.  Before joining Readers Digest, she held various positions with Kraft Foods Corp., Colgate Palmolive Company and was an audit manager with KPMG (then KPMG Peat Marwick).  Ms. DEmic is a certified public accountant.  She has no family relationship to any other director or executive officer of the Company.
 
The information set forth in the press release issued by Frontier Communications Corporation on April 4, 2011, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On March 31, 2011, the Company entered into an employment arrangement with Ms. DEmic pursuant to which she will receive an annual base salary of $270,000, an annual incentive target of 50% of base salary and long-term incentive compensation in the form of an annual award of restricted shares in an amount determined each year by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.  In addition, Ms. DEmic will receive a sign-on grant of 20,000 restricted shares and a sign-on cash bonus of $30,000.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Gregory Lundberg, 203-614-5044
Director, Investor Relations
greg.lundberg@ftr.com
Frontier Communications Names New SVP and Controller
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) today announced that Susana DEmic will join the company on April 15, 2011 as Senior Vice President and Controller and serve as the companys designated Chief Accounting Officer, replacing Robert J. Larson.  She will report to Donald R. Shassian, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
STAMFORD, Conn., April 4, 2011
Ms. DEmic brings a unique set of experiences and an extensive background in integrating acquisitions and consolidating business functions.  Most recently she was Vice President, Corporate Controller, of Readers Digest Assoc., responsible for all financial reporting, accounting, cost savings initiatives, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and internal audit.  She joined Readers Digest in 1998 and held a variety of controllership positions with increasing responsibility in its U.S. operations that entailed operational improvements, systems conversions, business integrations and the standard financial planning and accounting for those units.
Prior to this, Ms. DEmic was Manager, Corporate Planning and Analysis at Kraft Foods Corp.  Before that, she held a number of positions at Colgate-Palmolive Company, most recently as Manager, Financial Analysis and Reporting.  She joined Colgate after six years as an Audit Manager at KPMG (then KPMG Peat Marwick).
Ms. DEmic graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton with a B.S. in Accounting.  She is a licensed Certified Public Accountant.
Don Shassian remarked, Sue brings Frontier great technical skills in accounting which, when combined with her leadership experience and style, make her uniquely qualified to help us continue to integrate the operations and systems acquired from Verizon in July 2010 and enhance our financial organization.  I am confident Sue will take a lead in making the organizational changes needed to streamline transaction processing, enhance our reporting, and reduce our costs throughout the company.  All of these actions will benefit our shareholders, customers, vendors and employees.
About Frontier Communications
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: FTR) is a Fortune 500 company included in the S&P 500 Index and offering voice, High-Speed Internet, video, wireless Internet data access, data security solutions, bundled offerings and specialized bundles for residential customers, small businesses and home offices, and advanced business communications solutions for medium and large businesses in 27 states and with approximately 14,800 employees. It has a 100 percent U.S.-based workforce.  More information is available at and .
www.frontier.com
www.frontier.com/ir


