FILE:FTR/FTR-8K-20120815153308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
------------------------------
 
------------------------------
------------------------------
 
------------------------------
---------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
  
 
 
 The information referred to in Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
   
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
  
 
 
 On August 15, 2012, the Company completed its registered offering of $600 million of 7.125% Senior Notes due 2023.  The notes were issued pursuant to the indenture dated as of April 9, 2009, as supplemented by the fourth supplemental indenture dated as of August 15, 2012, with The Bank of New York Mellon as trustee.  The notes bear interest at the rate of 7.125% per year.  Interest on the notes is payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2013.  The notes will mature on January 15, 2023.  The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the notes at any time by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption.  The notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with all of its other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.  The indenture and fourth supplemental indenture contain certain covenants and events of default and other customary provisions.
   
 
 In connection with the offering, the Company is filing as Exhibit 5.1 hereto an opinion of counsel addressing the validity of the notes.  Such opinion and the fourth supplemental indenture are incorporated by reference into the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333- 181299), pursuant to which the notes were offered and issued.
   
 
 The foregoing descriptions of the notes, the indenture and the fourth supplemental indenture are summaries only and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents.  A copy of the fourth supplemental indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  August 15, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of August 15, 2012 (this Supplemental Indenture), between FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the Company), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the Trustee).
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2009 (the Base Indenture), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2009 (the First Supplemental Indenture), the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 1, 2009 (the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2012 (the Third Supplemental Indenture and, together with the Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture), providing for the authentication, issuance and delivery of notes to be issued in one or more series from time to time by the Company (the Securities);
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities to be known as its 7.125% Senior Notes due 2023 (the Notes) to be issued under the Indenture in an aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000, which may be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Base Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to supplement and amend the provisions of the Indenture to issue the Notes;
 
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture expressly permits the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, upon the written request of the Company, to enter into one or more supplemental indentures for the purposes, , of providing for the issuance of and establishing the forms and terms of Notes of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 2.02 of the Base Indenture, and permits the execution of such supplemental indentures without the consent of the Holders of any Notes then Outstanding;
inter alia
 
WHEREAS, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to a Board Resolution and due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, no consent of any Holder is required to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture; and
 
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof has been in all respects duly authorized.
 
 
1
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
 
Article 1. .
Definitions
 
 
Section 1.01. . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Generally
 
 
(a) A term not defined herein that is defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in this Supplemental Indenture;
 
 
(b) A term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout;
 
 
(c) A reference to a Section or Article is to a Section or Article of this Supplemental Indenture; and
 
 
(d) All dollars are United States dollars.
 
 
Section 1.02. . For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, except as expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Section 1.02 shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.02.
Definitions Used Herein
 
 
 means Indebtedness of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or Indebtedness of a Subsidiary of the Company assumed in connection with an Asset Acquisition by such Subsidiary;  such Indebtedness was not Incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary or such Asset Acquisition.
Acquired Indebtedness
provided
 
 
 means, with respect to any redemption date:
Adjusted Treasury Rate
 
 
 
The Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date.
 
 means (1) an investment by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in any other Person pursuant to which such Person shall become a Subsidiary or shall be merged into or consolidated with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or (2) an acquisition by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of the property and assets of any Person other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that constitute substantially all of a division, operating unit or line of business of such Person.
Asset Acquisition
 
 
2
 
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular person as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, such person shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such person has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition.
Beneficial Owner
 
 means Indebtedness represented by obligations under a lease that is required to be capitalized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. The amount of Indebtedness shall be the capitalized amount of the obligations determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
 means, with respect to any entity, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of or in such entitys Common Stock or other equity interests, and options, rights or warrants to purchase such Common Stock or other equity interests, whether now outstanding or issued after the Issue Date.
Capital Stock
 
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
 
 
 
 means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
 means any forward contract, commodity swap agreement, commodity option agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement.
Commodity Agreement
 
 means:
Common Stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes ().
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
 
 means, for any redemption date, (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
 
 means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
Continuing Director
 
 
 
 means one or more debt facilities or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks or other lenders, providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financings, including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables, letters of credit or other borrowings, including capital markets debt, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time.
Credit Facilities
 
 means any foreign exchange contract, currency swap agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement.
Currency Agreement
 
 means any Subsidiary of the Company (a) the Capital Stock of which the Company intends to distribute to its shareholders or (b) the assets or Capital Stock of which the Company intends to sell or otherwise dispose of to any Person other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in each case, as evidenced by a Board Resolution.
Designated Subsidiary
 
 means any class or series of Capital Stock of any Person that by its terms or otherwise is (1) required to be redeemed prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, (2) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock at any time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes or (3) convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock referred to in clause (1) or (2) above or Indebtedness having a scheduled maturity prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes.
Disqualified Stock
 
 means the price that would be paid in an arms length transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination, unless otherwise specified, shall be conclusive if evidenced by a Board Resolution.
 
Fair Market Value
 
 means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and in the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, as in effect from time to time. All ratios and computations contained or referred to in this Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture shall be computed in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 
 
4
 
 means, individually and collectively, each of the Notes that is a Global Security, issued in accordance with Section 2.05 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
Global Notes
 
 means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of any Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (1) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness of such other Person (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, or by agreements to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services (unless such purchase arrangements are on arms-length terms and are entered into in the ordinary course of business), to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (2) entered into for purposes of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part);  that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term Guarantee used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
 
 means, with respect to any Indebtedness, to incur, create, issue, assume, Guarantee or otherwise become liable for or with respect to, or become responsible for, the payment of, contingently or otherwise, such Indebtedness;  that (1) any Indebtedness of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary shall be deemed to be incurred by such Subsidiary at the time it becomes a Subsidiary and (2) neither the accrual of interest nor the accretion or amortization of original issue discount nor the payment of interest or dividend in the form of additional Indebtedness shall be considered an Incurrence of Indebtedness.
Incur
provided
 
 means, with respect to any Person at any date of determination (without duplication):
 
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
           The amount of Indebtedness of any Person at any date shall be the outstanding balance at such date of all unconditional obligations as described above and, with respect to contingent obligations, the maximum liability upon the occurrence of the contingency giving rise to the obligation, :
 
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means any interest rate protection agreement, interest rate future agreement, interest rate option agreement, interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate hedge agreement, option or future contract or other similar agreement or arrangement.
Interest Rate Agreement
 
 means August 15, 2012.
Issue Date
 
 means, with respect to any property or assets, including Capital Stock, any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, lien, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, charge, easement or zoning restriction that materially impairs usefulness or marketability, encumbrance, security agreement, Capital Lease Obligation, conditional sale, any other agreement that has the same economic effect as any of the above, or any sale and leaseback transaction.
 
Lien
 
 means Moodys Investor Services, Inc. or any successor rating agency.
Moodys
 
 means, at any time, the sum of (a) 10% of the value of the consolidated total assets of the Company and (b) 20% of the sum of the total consolidated current assets and net property, plant and equipment of the Company, in each case, as shown on, or computed from, the most recent quarterly or annual consolidated balance sheet filed by the Company with the Commission or provided to the Trustee.
Permitted Amount
 
 
6
 
 means Moodys and S&P.
Ratings Agencies
 
 means the occurrence of the following on, or within 90 days after, the date of the public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or of the intention by the Company or any third-party to effect a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Ratings Agencies): (1) in the event that the Notes have an Investment Grade Rating by both Ratings Agencies, the Notes cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by one or both of the Ratings Agencies, or (2) in any other event, the rating of the Notes by either of the Ratings Agencies decreases by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories) or is withdrawn.
Ratings Decline
 
 means any of the primary U.S. Government securities dealers in New York City.
Reference Treasury Dealer
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
 means Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor rating agency.
S&P
 
 means, (1) with respect to any debt security, the date specified in such debt security as the fixed date on which the final installment of principal of such debt security is due and payable and (2) with respect to any scheduled installment of principal of or interest on any debt security, the date specified in such debt security as the fixed date on which such installment is due and payable.
 
Stated Maturity
 
 means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person and one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
 
 means, with respect to any Person, any accounts payable or any other indebtedness or monetary obligation to trade creditors created, assumed or Guaranteed by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries arising in the ordinary course of business in connection with the acquisition of goods or services.
Trade Payables
 
 of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is normally entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
Article 2. .
Terms and Conditions of the Notes
 
There is hereby authorized the following new series of Notes:
 
Section 2.01. .
Designation and Principal Terms
 
 
    (a) The Notes are hereby authorized and designated as the 7.125% Senior Notes due 2023.
 
(b) The Notes shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000, shall bear interest at a rate of 7.125% per annum, shall mature on January 15, 2023 and are subject to optional redemption, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the stated maturity date thereof pursuant to the terms set forth in Article 4 hereof. The Specified Currency of the Notes shall be U.S. dollars. The Notes are not subject to a sinking fund.
 
 
7
 
(c) The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes, the interest payment dates of the Notes, the record date with respect to each payment of interest on the Notes and certain other terms of the Notes are set forth in the form of Note attached hereto.
 
Section 2.02. . Subject to Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture, the Company shall be permitted to amend this Supplemental Indenture in order to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued hereunder without the consent of the Holders of Notes.
Issuance of Additional Notes
 
Section 2.03. . The Notes shall be issuable only in registered form, without interest coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Denominations
 
Section 2.04. . The Notes are to be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and shall have the terms set forth therein.
Form of Note
 
Section 2.05. . The Notes shall be issued in the form of Global Notes. Each Global Note shall represent such of the Outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee, in accordance with instructions as required by the Indenture.
Global Notes
 
Section 2.06. . The Notes shall be senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company and shall rank  with all of the Companys other senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding from time to time. The Notes shall not be convertible into, or exchangeable for, any other securities of the Company, except that Notes shall be exchangeable for other Notes to the extent provided herein or in the Base Indenture.
Other Terms
pari passu
 
Article 3. .
Covenants
 
In addition to the covenants set forth in Article Four of the Base Indenture, the following additional covenants shall apply to the Company in connection with the Notes:
 
Section 3.01. . The Company shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to Incur any Indebtedness, other than
Limitation on Subsidiary Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
The maximum amount of Indebtedness that may be Incurred pursuant to this Section 3.01 shall not be deemed to be exceeded with respect to any outstanding Indebtedness due solely to the result of fluctuations in the exchange rates of currencies.
 
Section 3.02. . The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, allow any Lien on any of the Companys or its Subsidiaries property or assets (which includes capital stock) securing Indebtedness, unless the Lien secures the Notes equally and ratably with, or prior to, any such Indebtedness secured by such Lien, for so long as such other Indebtedness is so secured, subject to certain exceptions described in this Section 3.02. This Section 3.02 shall not apply to secured debt which the Company or its Subsidiaries may issue, assume, guarantee or permit to exist up to 10% of the value of the consolidated total assets of the Company as shown on, or computed from, the most recent quarterly or annual balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP and filed by the Company with the Commission or provided to the Trustee. In addition, this Section 3.02 shall not apply to:
Limitations on Liens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, Incur Liens securing Indebtedness or other obligations pursuant to the second sentence or clause (1) of the first paragraph of this Section 3.02, unless, after giving effect to the Incurrence of such Liens, the aggregate amount (without duplication) of (a) the Indebtedness and other obligations secured by Liens on the property or assets (which includes Capital Stock) of the Company and its Subsidiaries Incurred pursuant to the second sentence and clause (1) of the first paragraph of this Section 3.02  (b) the Indebtedness of the Companys Subsidiaries Incurred pursuant to clause (A) of the first paragraph of Section 3.01 shall not exceed the Permitted Amount at the time of the Incurrence of such Liens.
plus
 
Section 3.03. 
Repurchase of Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
. If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes, each Holder of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000, of that Holders Notes (a Change of Control Offer) on the terms set forth in this Supplemental Indenture at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the applicable date of repurchase (the Change of Control Payment). Within 30 days following any Change of Control
Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice, with a copy to the Trustee, for all the Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Article 4 hereof, the Company will mail a notice (the Change of Control Notice), with a copy to the Trustee, to each registered Holder briefly describing the transaction or transactions that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase Notes on the date specified in such Change of Control Notice (the Change of Control Payment Date), pursuant to the procedures required by this Supplemental Indenture and described in such notice (which procedures shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee). Provided that a definitive agreement relating to the Change of Control is in place at the time the Change of Control Offer is made, the Change of Control Notice shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditional upon the occurrence of the relevant Change of Control Triggering Event. The Change of Control Notice shall also specify the date by which such notice was required to be given, the date by which the Holders have to make an election to repurchase and the procedures therefor, and whether the Holders may withdraw their election to repurchase and the procedures therefor.
 
 
10
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 3.03, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the provisions of this Section 3.03 by virtue of such conflict.
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will determine whether the Notes are properly tendered, and the Trustee has no responsibility for, and may conclusively rely, upon the Companys determination with respect thereto. Subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, the Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each registered Holder of Notes who has properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly
authenticate, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Indenture, and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; 
provided
 that each such new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Any Note so accepted for payment will cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
This Section 3.03 shall be applicable, except as described in Section 3.03, following a Change of Control Triggering Event notwithstanding Article 4 hereof.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 3.03 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
 
The Company may make a Change of Control Offer in advance of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and conditional upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Triggering Event, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control Triggering Event at the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
 
Section 3.04. . In the event that the Notes receive a rating equal to or greater than BBB- by S&P and Baa3 by Moodys or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings system of either such agency shall be modified after the date hereof (with a stable or better outlook in the case of a rating equal to BBB- by S&P and Baa3 by Moodys) (each such rating, an Investment Grade Rating), and notwithstanding that the Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating from either S&P or Moodys or both, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be released from their obligations to comply with Section 3.01. The Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and may conclusively rely upon, an Officers Certificate specifying that an Investment Grade Rating has occurred and stating that, pursuant to this Section 3.04, the Company has been released from its obligations to comply with Section 3.01.
Termination of Certain Covenants
 
 
11
 
Section 3.05. . The covenants herein shall be subject to defeasance as and to the extent provided in Article 8 of the Base Indenture.
Defeasance
 
Article 4. .
Redemption
 
Section 4.01. . The Notes may be redeemed at the Companys election, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
Optional Redemption
 
 
 
plus, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption on the Notes to be redeemed.
 
If the Company selects a redemption date that is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, the accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Note is registered at the close of business on such interest record date.
 
The Company shall mail a notice of redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
To the extent any of the provisions of this Article 4 conflict with Article 3 of the Base Indenture, the terms of this Article 4 shall be controlling.
 
Section 4.02. . If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, selection of the Notes for redemption shall be made by the Trustee as follows:
Partial Redemption
 
 
 
No Note of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption mailed pursuant to Section 4.01 relating to such Note will state the portion of the principal amount to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued upon cancellation of the original Note.
 
 
12
 
 
Article 5. .
Miscellaneous
 
Section 5.01. . The Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed a part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Indenture
 
Section 5.02. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH NOTE ISSUED HEREUNDER SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SUCH STATE, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
 
Section 5.03. . The Company hereby directs the Trustee to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture.
Direction to Trustee
 
Section 5.04. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by the Company.
The Trustee
 
Section 5.05. . All covenants and agreements of the Company in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors and assigns. All covenants and agreements of the Trustee in this Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors and assigns.
Successors
 
Section 5.06. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 5.07. . The parties may sign counterparts of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterpart Originals
 
Section 5.08.  The Table of Contents and headings in this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Supplemental Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents, Headings, etc.
 
 
 
 
13
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be executed as of the date first above written.
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
    
    
    
    
    
   
 
Title:     Executive
 
   
   
  
 
14
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
15

 
 
Exhibit 4.2
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (DTC), OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.  THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
PURSUANT TO A RECOMMENDATION PROMULGATED BY THE COMMITTEE ON UNIFORM SECURITY IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES, THE COMPANY HAS CAUSED CUSIP NUMBERS TO BE PRINTED ON THE NOTES AND THE TRUSTEE MAY USE CUSIP NUMBERS IN NOTICES OF REDEMPTION OR REPURCHASE AS A CONVENIENCE TO HOLDERS.  NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE ACCURACY OF SUCH NUMBERS EITHER AS PRINTED ON THE NOTES OR AS CONTAINED IN ANY NOTICE OF REDEMPTION OR REPURCHASE AND RELIANCE MAY BE PLACED ONLY ON THE OTHER IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS PLACED THEREON.
 
[IF THIS NOTE WILL NOT BE HELD THROUGH DTC, INSERT: THIS NOTE IS ISSUED WITH ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. THE ISSUE DATE IS APRIL 9, 2009. INFORMATION REGARDING THE ISSUE PRICE, THE YIELD TO MATURITY AND THE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT UNDER THIS NOTE CAN BE PROMPTLY OBTAINED BY SENDING A WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE TREASURER OF THE ISSUER AT 3 HIGH RIDGE PARK, STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT 06905.]
 
 
 
Frontier Communications Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ), for value received, hereby promises to pay                           , or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $ (United States dollars) or such other principal amount as shall be set forth under Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Note attached hereto on January 15, 2023 (the ), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year (each, an ), commencing January 15, 2013, and on the Maturity Date (or on any redemption or repayment date) the amount of interest on said principal sum, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title of this Note, from and including August 15, 2012 or from but excluding the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for until said principal sum has been paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Company
 
Maturity Date
Interest Payment Date
 
 
 
 
The interest payable on any Interest Payment Date which is punctually paid or duly provided for on such Interest Payment Date, will be paid to the person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on January 1 or July 1 (in each case, whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be (each, a ), immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest payable on this Note which is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date therefor, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date, and such interest may either (i) be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a special record date to be established for such payment by the Trustee or (ii) be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, all as more fully provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
Regular Record Date
 
Payment of the principal, any premium and the interest due on the Maturity Date (or on any redemption or repayment date) of this Note will be made in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Paying Agent, as defined on the reverse hereof, maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at such other paying agency as the Company may determine. At the option of the Company, interest on the Notes may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the register of Holders of the Notes.
 
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
Dated:
 
Frontier Communications Corporation
 
By: ___________________________                                                               
Name:
Title:
 
By: ___________________________                                                               
Name:
Title:
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated:
The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee
 
By: ____________________________                                                               
Authorized Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.
 
INDENTURE. (a) This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior debt securities of the Company (hereinafter called the ), all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2009 (the ), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (the , which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2009 (the ), the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 1, 2009 (the ), the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2012 (the ) and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 15, 2012 (together with the Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, the ), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Company has appointed the Trustee as the paying agent (the , which term includes any additional or successor Paying Agent appointed by the Company) with respect to the Notes. To the extent not inconsistent herewith, the terms of the Indenture are hereby incorporated by reference herein. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $600,000,000.
Securities
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Third Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Paying Agent
 
(b) All capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
2.
 
AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
 
3.
 
OBLIGATION TO PAY PRINCIPAL, PREMIUM, IF ANY, AND INTEREST. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company or any other obligor on the Securities, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate, and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
 
 
 
 
4.
 
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. This Note is redeemable at the Companys election, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
 
, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption on the Notes to be redeemed.
plus
 
If the Company selects a redemption date that is on or after a Regular Record Date and on or before the related Interest Payment Date, the accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall be paid to the person in whose name the Note is registered at the close of business on such Record Date.
 
The Company will mail a notice of redemption at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
For purposes of the foregoing, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 means, with respect to any redemption date:
Adjusted Treasury Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date.
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker (as defined below) as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities ().
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
 
 means, for any redemption date, (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
 means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means any of the primary U.S. Government securities dealers in New York City.
Reference Treasury Dealer
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
5.
 
REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Company will be required to offer to purchase all of the Outstanding Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to the date of repurchase.
 
 
 
 
6.
 
CERTAIN COVENANTS. The Indenture restricts the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries to incur Indebtedness at the Companys Subsidiaries, create certain Liens and merge or consolidate with other companies. These covenants are subject to the covenant defeasance procedures outlined in the Indenture.
 
7.
 
EFFECT OF EVENT OF DEFAULT. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Indenture, the principal hereof may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
 
8.
 
DEFEASANCE. The Indenture contains provisions for legal defeasance and covenant defeasance at any time of the Indebtedness on this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
9.
 
DENOMINATIONS; EXCHANGES. (a) The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of other authorized denomination.
 
10.
 
HOLDER AS OWNER. Prior to the due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any Agent of the Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Note (whether or not this Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and, subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any Agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
11.
 
NO LIABILITY OF CERTAIN PERSONS. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto or in any Note, or because of the creation of any Indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any past, present or future incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company, or any successor corporation, under any constitution, statute or rule of law or by the enforcement of any assessment or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof.
 
 
 
 
12.
 
LOSS, THEFT OR DESTRUCTION. In case any Note shall at any time become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen and such Note or evidence of the loss, theft or destruction thereof (together with the indemnity hereinafter referred to and such other documents or proof as maybe required in the premises) shall be delivered to the Trustee, a new Note of like tenor will be issued by the Company in exchange for the Note so mutilated, or in lieu of the Note so destroyed or lost or stolen, but, in case of any destroyed or lost or stolen Note, only upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company that such Note was destroyed or lost or stolen and, if required by the Company or the Trustee, upon receipt also of indemnity satisfactory to each of them. All expenses and reasonable charges associated with procuring such indemnity and with the preparation, authentication and delivery of a new Note shall be borne by the owner of the Note mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen.
 
13.
 
GOVERNING LAW. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflict of law provisions thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto:
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
________________________________
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
 
________________________________
the within Note of Frontier Communications Corporation and all rights thereunder and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints such person attorney to transfer such Note on the books of Frontier Communications Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
Dated: __________________________                                                               
 
Signature  _______________________                                                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial principal amount of this Note is U.S.$             .  The following increases or decreases in the principal amount of this Note have been made:
 
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
 
 
Frontier Communications Corporation
3 High Ridge Park
Stamford, Connecticut 06905
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We are acting as counsel for Frontier Communications Corporation , a Delaware corporation (the ), in connection with the issuance and sale of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.125% Senior Notes due 2023 (the ) of the Company, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated August 8, 2012 (the ), entered into between the Company and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, acting as the representative of the several underwriters named therein. The Notes are being issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2009, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the ), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 15, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ).
Company
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
Trustee
Indenture
 
In connection with the opinion expressed herein, we have examined such documents, records and matters of law as we have deemed relevant or necessary for purposes of such opinions. Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further limitations, qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
 
For the purposes of the opinion expressed herein, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture, (ii) the Notes have been duly authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and (iii) the Indenture is a valid, binding and enforceable obligation of the Trustee.
 
The opinion expressed herein is limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance, voidable preference, moratorium or other similar laws and related regulations and judicial doctrines from time to time in effect relating to or affecting creditors rights generally, and (ii) general equitable principles and public policy considerations, whether such principles and considerations are considered in a proceeding at law or at equity.
 
As to facts material to the opinion and assumptions expressed herein, we have relied upon oral or written statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others. The opinion expressed herein is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in each case as currently in effect, and we express no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction on the opinion expressed herein.
 
 
 
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof filed by the Company and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-181299) (the ), filed by the Company to effect the registration of the Notes under the Securities Act of 1933 (the ) and to the reference to Jones Day under the caption Validity of Securities in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder.
Registration Statement
Act
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


