FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20060802172204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Election of a New Director
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5.02, "Election of a New Director."
On August 2, 2006, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. James V. Kelley to its Board of Directors. Mr. Kelley has been appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board. The full text of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.03. Amendment to the Company's By-Laws
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5.03, "Amendment to the Company's By-Laws."
On August 2, 2006, the Company amended its By-Laws whereby Section 2 of Article III was amended to increase the number of directors from ten to eleven.
Item 8.01. Other Events of Importance to Security Holders
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01, "Other Events of Importance to Security Holders."
On August 2, 2006, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a press release announcing a 33.3% dividend increase to $.60 per outstanding share on an annualized basis. The full text of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 2, 2006
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, Arkansas, August 2, 2006  The Board of Directors of Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE: MUR) today declared a quarterly dividend on the Common Stock of Murphy Oil Corporation of $.15 per share, or $.60 per share on an annualized basis. The previous annualized dividend level was $.45 per share. The dividend is payable September 1, 2006 to holders of record August 15, 2006.
In commenting on the 33.3% dividend increase, Claiborne P. Deming, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are pleased to provide our shareholders with a higher quarterly dividend reflecting our confidence in the successful execution of our strategic plans and our focus on creating value for our shareholders."
The Company also announced today that James V. Kelley has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective August 2, 2006.
Mr. Kelley is President and COO of BancorpSouth, Inc. in Tupelo, Mississippi and is a member of its Board of Directors. He has served in this position since 2000. Previously he was Chairman, President and CEO of First United Bancshares, Inc., which merged with and into BancorpSouth in 2000.
Mr. Kelley received a BSBA degree from Ouachita Baptist University and has completed various financial schools and courses, including, the School of Bank Marketing, University of Colorado, and the Southwestern Graduate School of Banking, Southern Methodist University. He currently serves as Director for both Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield and USAble Corporation.
William C. Nolan, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Murphy commented, "We are delighted that Jim has joined our Board. His banking experience and financial expertise will mean a great deal to Murphy Oil in the years ahead."
The forward-looking statements reflected in this release are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. No assurance can be given that the results discussed herein will be attained, and certain important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially are contained in Murphy's January 15, 1997 Form 8-K report on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


