FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20080806162240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2008, Murphy Oil Corporation announced that Claiborne P. Deming, President and Chief Executive Officer, will retire from the Company effective December 31, 2008, and will be succeeded in these positions by David M. Wood, currently Executive Vice President, effective January 1, 2009. Mr. Deming has held these positions since October 1, 1994. Mr. Deming will remain on the Board of Directors and has been elected Chairman of the Board's Executive Committee effective January 1, 2009. Mr. Wood has also been elected to the Company's Board of Directors effective with his promotion.
Mr. Wood, age 51, joined the Company in 1994 and has been responsible for Murphy Oil's worldwide exploration and production operations since January 1, 2007. Mr. Wood also has served the Company as President of Murphy Exploration & Production Company since January 1, 2007. He had previously served as President of Murphy Exploration & Production CompanyInternational from March 2003 through December 2006, Senior Vice President of Frontier Exploration and Production from April 1999 through February 2003, Vice President Frontier Exploration and Production from 1997 through March 1999, General Manager Frontier Exploration from 1995 to 1997 and Manager Frontier Exploration from 1994 to 1995. Prior to joining Murphy Oil, Mr. Wood worked in various exploration capacities for another oil company from 1980 to 1994. He holds a bachelor's degree in geology from Nottingham University in England.
The full text of the news release announcing these changes to executive management is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On August 6, 2008, Murphy Oil Corporation amended Article III, Section 2 of its By-Laws to change the number of directors from ten to eleven effective January 1, 2009, and amended Article IV, Section 2 to provide for election by the board of the chairman of the executive committee.
 
On August 6, 2008, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a news release announcing a 33.3% dividend increase to $1.00 per outstanding share on an annualized basis. The full text of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 6, 2008
Exhibit Index
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For business to be properly brought before a stockholder meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware General Corporation Law, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company, such stockholder, or a duly authorized representative, must attend the meeting in order to present such business and, in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called upon written request of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting, such business shall be limited to those matters stated in the written request for such meeting pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company (a) in the case of the annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; ,, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10
provided
however
th
day following the earlier of the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was first mailed to stockholders or the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was first made and (b) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders, not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was first mailed to stockholders or the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a meeting of stockholders commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (b) the name and address, as they
 
appear on the Company's books, of such stockholder and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (c) the number of shares of each class or series of capital stock of the Company that are owned beneficially (and proof of any such beneficial ownership) or of record by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder or such beneficial owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and a description of any material interest of such stockholder or such beneficial owner in such business, (e) a representation that such stockholder or a duly authorized representative intends to appear in person at the meeting to bring such business before the meeting, (f) a representation as to whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group that intends to (1) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Company's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (2) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal and (g) any other information relating to such stockholder, beneficial owner or proposed business that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitation of proxies in support of such proposal pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (together with and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and any successor laws, rules and regulations, the ""; references to any given section of the Exchange Act shall include the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder). The Company may require the stockholder and/or beneficial owner proposing to bring business before the meeting to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine whether each proposed item of business is a proper matter for stockholder action.
Exchange Act
The foregoing notice requirements with respect to business proposals shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if such stockholder has submitted a proposal to the Company in compliance with Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Company to solicit proxies for such annual meeting.
No business shall be conducted at a stockholder meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of the bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the Company may be made at a meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) in the case of the annual meeting of stockholders or a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing one or more directors (but not in the case of any other special meeting of stockholders), by any stockholder of the Company who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 8 and is entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 8. For nominations to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder pursuant to the foregoing clause (b), the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company and such stockholder, or a duly authorized representative, must attend the meeting in order to make such nominations.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company (a) in the case of the annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; ,, that in the event that the annual meeting of stockholders is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10
provided
however
th
day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was first mailed to stockholders or the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was first made and (b) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders, not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was first mailed to stockholders or the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was first made. In no event shall public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a meeting of stockholders commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing paragraph to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors of the Company at the annual meeting is increased and there is no public disclosure by the Company naming all the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased board of directors at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 8 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by any such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal
 
executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the day on which such public disclosure is first made by the Company.
To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of such stockholder and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, (ii) the class and number of shares of the capital stock of each class or series of capital stock of the Company that are owned beneficially (and proof of any such beneficial ownership) or of record by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder or such beneficial owner and each proposed nominee or any other person or persons (including their names and addresses) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such shareholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder or a duly authorized representative intends to appear in person at the meeting to nominate the persons named in such notice, (v) a representation as to whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group that intends to (1) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Company's outstanding capital stock required to elect such proposed nominee(s) and/or (2) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposed nominee(s) and (vi) any other information relating to such shareholder or beneficial owner that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act. At the request of the board of directors, any person nominated by the board of directors for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the Company that information required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee.
No person shall be eligible to serve as a director of the Company unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
 
 
Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the board of directors to fix a record date. Such written notice must set forth as to each action that the stockholder proposes to take by consent (a) the text of the proposal (including the text of any resolutions to be adopted by consent and the language of any proposed amendment to the bylaws of the Company), (b) the reasons for soliciting consents for the proposal, (c) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of such stockholder and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (c) the number of shares of each class or series of capital stock of the Company that are owned beneficially (and proof of any such beneficial ownership) or of record by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder or such beneficial owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal and a description of any material interest of such stockholder or such beneficial owner in such action and (e) any other information relating to such shareholder, beneficial owner or proposal that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies or consents, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act. To the extent the proposed action by consent involves the election of directors, the notice shall set forth as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to elect, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy or information statement as a potential director and to serving as a director if elected). During the 10 day period following the date of receipt of the notice required under this Section 9, the Company may require the stockholder and/or beneficial owner requesting a record date for proposed stockholder action by consent to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the validity of the request for a record date.
The board of directors shall be entitled to adopt promptly a resolution fixing the record date; provided that if the board of directors determines to so fix a record date it must adopt such resolution within 10 days after the date on which the request is received. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Company by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of
 
business or to any officer or agent of the Company having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded, to the attention of the Secretary of the Company. Delivery made to the Company's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors and prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of Sections 7 and 8, "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The board of directors shall fill vacancies in the executive committee by election from the directors.
The executive committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules or by resolution of the board of directors, but in every case the presence of at least three members of the committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
In every case the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the members of the committee present at the meeting shall be necessary for the adoption of any resolution.
 
The executive committee, subject to any limitations prescribed by the board of directors, shall have special charge of all financial accounting, legal and general administrative affairs of the Company. During the intervals between the meetings of the board of directors the executive committee shall have all the powers of the board in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, including the power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which require it, except that said committee shall not have the power of the board (i) to fill vacancies in the board, (ii) to amend the by-laws, (iii) to adopt a plan of merger or consolidation, (iv) to recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge or other disposition of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company otherwise than in the usual and regular course of its business, or (v) to recommend to the stockholders a voluntary dissolution of the Company or a revocation thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
He shall disburse the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and board of directors at the regular meetings of the board, or whenever they may require it, an account of the financial condition of the Company.
If required by the board of directors, he shall give the Company a bond, in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the board, for the faithful performance of the duties of his office, and for the restoration to the Company, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Company.
 
 
 
 
The board of directors may, if it so determines, direct that certificates for shares of any class or classes of capital stock of the Company be registered by a registrar, in which case such certificates will not be valid until so registered.
In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature shall have been used on, any certificate for shares of capital stock of the Company shall cease to be such officer, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate shall have been delivered by the Company, such certificate shall nevertheless be deemed to have been adopted by the Company and may be issued and delivered as though the person who signed such certificate or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The by-laws of the Company may be altered, amended or repealed either by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote in respect thereof and represented in person or by proxy at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office given at any regular or special meeting of the board of directors. By-laws, whether made or altered by the stockholders or by the board of directors, shall be subject to alteration or repeal by the stockholders as in this Article provided.
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, Arkansas, August 6, 2008  Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE:MUR) announced that Claiborne P. Deming, President and CEO since 1994, will retire effective December 31, 2008, and will be succeeded by David M. Wood who currently serves as Murphy's Executive Vice President, worldwide exploration and production operations.
Mr. Deming will continue as a member of Murphy's board of directors, and will succeed Mr. William Nolan as Chairman of the Board's Executive Committee. Mr. Nolan will remain Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Wood joined the Company in 1994 and has held several positions including Vice President and Senior Vice President of frontier exploration and production and President of Murphy Exploration & Production Company. In January 2007 Mr. Wood became Executive Vice President with responsibility for all of the Company's exploration and production operations. Mr. Wood will relocate to the Company's corporate headquarters in El Dorado, Arkansas, become a member of the board of directors and assume his duties as President and CEO effective January 1, 2009.
Mr. Deming said, "David is an extremely talented and accomplished individual who has excelled in building an exploration and production program, recruiting exceptionally skilled professionals and executing world class projects. He has the leadership ability and skill to grow the Company's business well into the future and I wholeheartedly commend him to shareholders.
As for me, I plan to continue following industry developments particularly at this pivotal time, and I will of course remain involved in the Company but at the board and executive committee levels. I have no specific plans however I certainly intend to stay actively engaged in business affairs. Simply put, after what will have been nearly 15 years as CEO of Murphy Oil Corporation, it is time to turn it over to someone of David's capabilities."
The forward-looking statements reflected in this release are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. No assurance can be given that the results discussed herein will be attained, and certain important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially are contained in Murphy's January 15, 1997 Form 8-K report on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

EXHIBIT 99.2
EL DORADO, Arkansas, August 6, 2008  The Board of Directors of Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE: MUR) today declared a quarterly dividend on the Common Stock of Murphy Oil Corporation of $.25 per share, or $1.00 per share on an annualized basis. The previous annualized dividend level was $.75 per share. The dividend is payable September 2, 2008 to holders of record August 18, 2008.
In commenting on the 33% dividend increase, Claiborne P. Deming, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are very pleased to announce to our shareholders that we will increase the dividend by 25 per share, following two consecutive years of 15 per share increases. The ability to increase our payout is due to healthy net income and cash flow generated during a period of strong production growth for our Company. Importantly, we still maintain financial flexibility to continue our multiple ongoing development projects."
The forward-looking statements reflected in this release are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. No assurance can be given that the results discussed herein will be attained, and certain important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially are contained in Murphy's January 15, 1997 Form 8-K report on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


