FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20110805114135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5.02, "Election of a New Director."
On August 5, 2011, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. Steven A. Coss and Mr. Walentin (Val) Mirosh to its Board of Directors. The full text of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5.03, "Amendment to the Company's By-Laws."
On August 3, 2011, the Company amended its By-Laws whereby Section 2 of Article III was amended to increase the number of directors from ten to twelve.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 5, 2011
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, Arkansas, August 5, 2011  The Board of Directors of Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE: MUR) announced today that Steven A. Coss and Walentin (Val) Mirosh have been elected to the Company's Board of Directors effective August 3, 2011.
Mr. Coss retired from Murphy Oil in March of this year, where he served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel. He previously held positions as Senior Vice President, Vice President and Principal Financial Officer while maintaining his role as General Counsel throughout his tenure with Murphy Oil Corporation. Prior to that, Mr. Coss served as General Counsel for Ocean Drilling & Exploration Company (ODECO) in New Orleans, Louisiana, a NYSE listed majority owned subsidiary of Murphy.
He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Southeastern Louisiana University in 1969 and a Juris Doctor degree from Loyola University in 1974. Mr. Coss presently serves on the boards of the Arkansas Research Alliance, Simmons First Bank of El Dorado, Simmons First National Corporation, and SHARE Foundation (chairman). Mr. Coss is a member of the Louisiana Bar Association, Arkansas Bar Association and Union County Bar Association.
Mr. Mirosh is President of Mircan Resources, Inc., a private consulting company based in Calgary, Canada and is a member of its Board of Directors. He previously held positions as Vice President and Special Advisor to the President and Chief Operating Officer of NOVA Chemicals Corp.
He received a Bachelor of Science degree in 1968 from the University of Alberta, a Masters degree from the University of Waterloo in 1970, and a Bachelor of Laws degree in 1973 from the University of Alberta. Mr. Mirosh currently serves on the Board of Directors of Superior Plus, TC Pipelines, and Alberta Economic Development Authority. He is Director of Latin American Research Center at the University of Calgary, and Co-Chairman of the Advisory Council to the Faculty of Social Sciences.
William C. Nolan, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Murphy commented, "We are delighted to bring onto our Board two individuals with tremendous business acumen and experience in our industry."

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The by-laws of the Company may be altered, amended or repealed either by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote in respect thereof and represented in person or by proxy at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office given at any regular or special meeting of the board of directors. By-laws, whether made or altered by the stockholders or by the board of directors, shall be subject to alteration or repeal by the stockholders as in this Article provided.
 


