FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20111003164256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
The following is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01, "Other Events".
On September 30, 2011, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Murphy Oil Corporation completed the sale if its refinery in Superior, Wisconsin, for a sale price of $214 million plus hydrocarbon inventories valued at approximately $220 million, subject to certain adjustments.
On October 1, 2011, the subsidiary completed the sale of its refinery in Meraux, Louisiana, for a sale price of $325 million plus hydrocarbon inventories valued at approximately $260 million, subject to certain adjustments.
On October 3, 2011, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a news release announcing the completion of the sale of these two U.S. refineries. The full text of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 3, 2011
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, Arkansas, October 3, 2011  Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE: MUR) announced today that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Murphy Oil USA, Inc., has completed the sale of its two US refineries and related assets.
The Superior Refinery was acquired by a subsidiary of Calumet Specialty Products Partners, L.P. for a sales price of $214 million plus hydrocarbon inventories valued at approximately $220 million, subject to certain adjustments. The sale closed on September 30, 2011.
The Meraux Refinery was acquired by a subsidiary of Valero Energy Corporation for a sales price of $325 million plus hydrocarbon inventories valued at approximately $260 million, subject to certain adjustments. The sale closed on October 1, 2011.
David M. Wood, Murphy's President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We are pleased to finalize the sale of both the Superior and Meraux refineries as these were important steps in our ongoing repositioning efforts."
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP acted as legal counsel to Murphy. Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as financial advisor to Murphy.
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the volatility and level of crude oil and natural gas prices, the level and success rate of our exploration programs, our ability to maintain production rates and replace reserves, political and regulatory instability, and uncontrollable natural hazards. For further discussion of risk factors, see Murphy's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Murphy undertakes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


