FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20120621155910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
\
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Company announced on June 20, 2012 that Mr. David Wood, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, will be retiring from the Company effective June 30, 2012, and that he will be stepping down from these roles with the Company, and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective immediately. The Company does not have employment, change in control or termination agreements with its senior executive officers. Determinations as to the payment of any termination benefits for departures from executive-level positions are made by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on an individual case-by-case basis.
 
In the case of Mr. Wood, he will receive a cash payment of $250,000 following execution of the agreement referred to below, and a cash payment of $250,000 on the first anniversary of the retirement date in connection with certain covenants to which Mr. Wood has agreed (including his agreement not to compete with the Company during this one year period), as well as a release of claims against the Company.  In addition, for purposes of the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), Mr. Wood will be granted an additional three years of age and service credit as of his retirement date for purposes of calculating his accrued defined benefit under both the Companys Retirement Plan and the SERP. Awards under the Companys Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plans will be treated in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan. Mr. Wood has also agreed to a one-year consultancy with the Company for which he will receive a monthly consulting fee of $112,500.  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the letter agreement between Mr. Wood and the Company dated as of June 20, 2012, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 On June 20, 2012, the Board of Directors elected Steven A. Coss, former Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Cosss compensatory arrangement, as established by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, includes an annual base salary of $1,150,000 and an annual target bonus opportunity of  135% of Mr. Coss's base salary. Mr. Coss was also granted an option to purchase 177,500 shares of Company common stock with an exercise price equal to fair market value of the common stock at the date of grant, 50% of which will vest and become exercisable on December 31, 2012, with the balance vesting and becoming exercisable on December 31, 2013, in each case subject to continued employment with the Company. Mr. Coss will also be entitled to limited personal use of Company aircraft of up to 12 trips per year.
 
Roger W. Jenkins, the Companys current Executive Vice President-Exploration and Production, has been elected by the Board of Directors to the newly-created position of Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately.  Mr. Jenkinss compensatory arrangement, as established by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, includes an annual base salary of $775,000 and an adjusted annual target bonus opportunity of 100% of Mr. Jenkinss base salary. Mr. Jenkins was also granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of Company common stock with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, 50% of which will vest and become exercisable on June 20, 2014, with the balance vesting and becoming exercisable on June 20, 2015, in each case subject to continued employment with the Company.
 
On June 20, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Woods retirement, the appointment of Mr. Coss, and the promotion of Mr. Jenkins, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                (d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Mr. David M. Wood
Murphy Oil Corporation
200 Peach Street, P.O. Box 7000
El Dorado, Arkansas
Dear David:
 
This letter agreement (the ) sets forth our mutual agreement concerning your retirement as a director, executive officer and employee of Murphy Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ).
Agreement
Company
 
1.      .  Your employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates will terminate in all capacities as of June 30, 2012 (the ); provided, however, that you hereby resign, effective as of the date of this Agreement, from your positions as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company and from all other officer positions, directorships and positions that you currently hold with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
Retirement
Effective Date
 
2.      .  Subject to your compliance with your obligations under this Agreement and in consideration of the covenants set forth herein and the waiver and release set forth below, and provided that you do not revoke this Agreement in accordance with Section 17(i), the Company will provide you with the following severance payments and benefits:
Severance Benefits
 
(a)      .  The Company will pay you severance in the amount of $500,000, $250,000 of which will be paid to you promplty following the expiration of the Revocation Period (as defined in Section 17(i)) and $250,000 of which will be paid to you on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.
Severance
 
(b)      .  Your retirement will be treated as a Retirement (as defined in the Companys 2007 Annual Incentive Plan (the )) under the AIP.  Accordingly, you will be eligible to receive an annual bonus for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 depending on satisfaction of the applicable performance goals, which annual bonus, if any, will be prorated by multiplying the annual bonus you would have been awarded if you were employed by the Company on December 31, 2012 by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days during the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on the Effective Date, and the denominator of which is 365.  Your resulting prorated annual bonus for 2012, if any, will be paid at the same time that bonuses under the AIP for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 are paid to participants in the AIP generally, but in no event later than March 15, 2013.
2012 Annual Bonus
AIP
 
(c)      .  You currently hold a) vested options (the ) to purchase 432,500 shares of the Companys common stock (), as evidenced by the Stock Option Agreements described on Schedule A hereto, and b) unvested performance-based restricted stock units (the ) relating to 190,000 shares of Common Stock, as evidenced by the Restricted Stock Unit Agreements described on Schedule A hereto.  For purposes of the Options and the RSUs, your retirement will be treated as a Normal Termination (as defined in the Companys 1992 Stock Incentive Plan or the Companys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan, as applicable (collectively, the )) under
Company Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units
Options
Common Stock
RSUs
Equity Plans
 
 
 
 
 
the Equity Plans.  Accordingly, (i) all of your vested Options will remain exercisable until the earlier of (A) the normal expiration date of the applicable Option and (B) the second anniversary of the Effective Date and (ii) your outstanding RSUs will vest and become payable at the end of the applicable performance period (x) depending on satisfaction of the applicable performance goals and (y) any such RSUs for which the applicable performance goals are satisfied at the end of a performance period will only vest and become payable on a pro rata basis, in an amount determined by multiplying the number of  RSUs you would have earned if you were employed by the Company at the end of the applicable performance period by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months in the period beginning on the grant date of the applicable RSU and ending on the last day of the month in which the Effective Date occurs, and the denominator of which is 36.  For the avoidance of doubt (i) any unvested options to purchase shares of Common Stock you hold as of the Effective Date will be forfeited as of the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the applicable Equity Plan and the applicable Stock Option Agreement relating thereto, and (ii) and any outstanding RSUs which do not vest and become payable as provided in this Section 2(c) will be forfeited pursuant to the terms of the applicable Equity Plan and the applicable Restricted Stock Unit Agreement relating thereto.
 
3.      .  Any accrued but unused vacation you have as of the Effective Date will be paid to you in accordance with the Companys vacation policy.
Vacation
 
4.      .  You will be entitled to receive your vested accrued benefits as of the Effective Date under (i) the Retirement Plan of Murphy Oil Corporation, as Restated Effective January 1, 2002 Including Amendments Made Between 2002 and 2009 (the ), and (ii) the Thrift Plan for Employees of Murphy Oil Corporation in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as applicable.
Qualified Retirement Plans
Retirement Plan
 
5.      .  You will be entitled to receive your vested accrued benefits (defined contribution and defined benefit) as of the Effective Date under the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as Restated Effective January 1, 2008 (the ), in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan; provided that the SERP will be amended as of the Effective Date to grant you an additional three years of age and three years of service credit as of the Effective Date for purposes of calculating your accrued defined benefit under both the Retirement Plan and the SERP, except that the amount of any such resulting additional defined benefit will be payable only under the SERP.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payments otherwise payable to you under the SERP during the six-month period beginning on the Effective Date will be paid to you in a lump sum at the end of such six-month period in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ).
Supplemental Retirement Plan
SERP
Code
 
6.      Subject to your compliance with your obligations under this Agreement and in consideration of the covenants set forth herein and the waiver and release set forth below, you will be engaged as a consultant to the Company for a period (the ) beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.  Your services hereunder during the Consulting Period shall consist of such consulting and advisory services, and shall be provided at such times, as may be requested from time to time by the Company; provided, however, that such services shall not be required for more than 24 hours during any one-month period.  Your obligation to provide consulting and advisory services, as requested by the Company, shall not unreasonably interfere with your other employment or business endeavors.  During the Consulting Period, as compensation for the consulting services to be performed by you hereunder, the Company will pay you a fee (the ) at a monthly rate of $112,500, payable within 5 days after the end of each applicable month.  You will not be treated as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates at any time after the Effective Date including, without limitation, during the Consulting Period, for any purposes, including, without limitation, for purposes of any past, present or future employee benefit plan, program or arrangement of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  
Consulting Engagement.  
Consulting Period
Consulting Fee
 
 
2
 
 
Your services hereunder during the Consulting Period, if any, will be performed in the capacity of an independent contractor.
 
7.      .  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein or as required by Section 4980B(f) of the Code (relating to COBRA coverage) or other applicable law, you will not be entitled to any compensation or benefits or to participate in any past, present or future employee benefit programs or arrangements of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates on or after the Effective Date.
No Other Compensation or Benefits
 
8.      .  From and after the date hereof, you will (i) cooperate in all reasonable respects (after taking into account any employment obligations or business endeavors you may have and such obligation to cooperate shall not require you to provide any such cooperation to the extent it would unreasonably interfere with such employment or business endeavors) with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and its directors, officers, attorneys and experts in connection with the conduct of any action, proceeding, investigation or litigation involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including any such action, proceeding, investigation or litigation in which you are called to testify and (ii) promptly respond to all reasonable requests by the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates relating to information concerning actual or prospective customers of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate which may be in your possession.  The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by you in connection with any such cooperation by you, provided that such expenses have been approved in writing in advance by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  To the extent that such expenses are reasonably estimated by you to be other than de minimis, the Company shall, subject to the approval set forth in the preceding sentence, advance you the amount of expenses that you reasonably believe you will incur in connection with such cooperation for the ensuing 15 day period upon your agreement to properly account to the Company for actual expenses and to pay back the Company any amount of such advancements that are not actually used to pay such estimated expenses.
Cooperation
 
9.      .  You represent that you have surrendered or will surrender within 10 days after the Effective Date to the Company all property of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in your possession and all property made available to you in connection with your employment by the Company including, without limitation, any and all records, manuals, customer lists, notebooks, computers, computer programs and files, papers, electronically stored information and documents kept or made by you in connection with your employment.
Return of Property
 
10.      .  You and the Company and its affiliates, and the Companys executives while acting within the course and scope of their employment, shall refrain from any derogatory or disparaging comments about each other, including any such comments relating to your employment, service as a director or separation from service; provided, however, that this obligation shall not apply to or restrict the communication of information by the Company or its affiliates, the Companys executives or you to any state or federal law enforcement agency or testimony or disclosure compelled by law or regulation or process of law.  A violation, or threatened violation, of this Section may be temporarily enjoined by a duly authorized court.  The rights afforded under this Section are in addition to any and all rights and remedies otherwise afforded by applicable law.
Mutual Non-Disparagement
 
11.      .
Release
 
(a)      .In consideration of the Companys obligations under this Agreement and for other valuable consideration, you hereby release and forever discharge the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and each of their officers, employees, directors and agents (collectively, the ) from any and all claims, actions and causes of action (
General Release
 
Released Parties
collectively, ), including, without limitation, any
Claims
 
 
3
 
 
Claims arising under any applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, that you may have, or in the future may possess, arising out of (x) your employment relationship with and service as a director, employee or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and the termination of such relationship or service, or (y) any event, condition, circumstance or obligation that occurred, existed or arose on or prior to the date hereof; provided, however, that the release set forth in this Section 11(a) will not apply to (i) the obligations of the Company under this Agreement and (ii) the obligations of the Company to continue to provide director and officer indemnification to you, including coverage under the Companys director and officer liability insurance policies to the same extent provided to other senior officers and directors of the Company.  You further agree that the payments and benefits described in this Agreement will be in full satisfaction of any and all claims for payments or benefits, whether express or implied, that you may have against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates arising out of your employment relationship, your service as a director, employee or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and the termination thereof.  This Section 11(a) does not apply to any Claims that you may have as of the date you sign this Agreement arising under the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated thereunder ().  Claims arising under ADEA are addressed in Section 11(b) of this Agreement.
ADEA
 
(b)      .  In consideration of the payments and benefits provided to you under this Agreement, you hereby release and forever discharge the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and each of their officers, employees, directors and agents from any and all Claims that you may have as of the date you sign this Agreement arising under ADEA.  By signing this Agreement, you hereby acknowledge and confirm the following: c) you were advised by the Company in connection with your termination to consult with an attorney of your choice prior to signing this Agreement and to have such attorney explain to you the terms of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the terms relating to your release of claims arising under ADEA; d) you have been given a period of not fewer than 21 days to consider the terms of this Agreement and to consult with an attorney of your choosing with respect thereto; and e) you are providing the release and discharge set forth in this Section 11(b) only in exchange for consideration in addition to anything of value to which you are already entitled.
Specific Release of ADEA Claims
 
12.      .
Confidentiality
 
(a)      .  You agree that you will not at any time, except with the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, reveal to any person, entity or other organization (other than the Company or its employees, officers, directors or agents) or use for your own benefit any Confidential Information (as defined below).  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 12 to the contrary, in the event that you become legally compelled to disclose any Confidential Information, you will provide the Company with prompt written notice so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy.  In the event that such protective order or other remedy is not obtained, you will furnish only that portion of such Confidential Information or take only such action as is legally required by binding order and you will exercise reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded for any such Confidential Information.
Confidentiality
 
(b)      .   means, without limitation and regardless of whether such information or materials are expressly identified as confidential or proprietary, (i) any and all non-public, confidential or proprietary information of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, (ii) any information of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that gives the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates a competitive business advantage or the opportunity of obtaining such advantage, (iii) any information of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates the disclosure or
Confidential Information
Confidential Information
 
 
4
 
 
improper use of which would reasonably be expected to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and (iv) any trade secrets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  Confidential Information also includes any non-public, confidential or proprietary information about, or belonging to, any third party that has been entrusted to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  The term Confidential Information shall not include information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by you, or at your direction.
 
13.      .  During the period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the second anniversary of the Effective Date (the ), you will not, without the Companys express written consent, directly or indirectly, solicit, induce or attempt to induce any employees, agents or consultants of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates to do anything from which you are restricted by reason of this Agreement nor will you, directly or indirectly, solicit, induce or aid others to solicit or induce any employees, agents or consultants of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate their employment or engagement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and/or to enter into an employment, agency or consultancy relationship with you or any other person or entity with whom you are affiliated.
Restrictions on Solicitation
Restricted Period
 
14.      .  During the period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the first anniversary of the Effective Date, you will not, without the Companys express written consent, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control, render service to, or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of any Competitor (as defined below) anywhere in the United States or in any non-U.S. jurisdiction in which the Company is engaged or plans to engage in business on the Effective Date; provided, however, that you will be entitled to own shares of stock of any corporation having a class of equity securities actively traded on a national securities exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market which represent, in the aggregate, not more than 1% of such corporations fully-diluted shares.  For purposes of this Agreement,  means any company, other entity or association or individual that directly or indirectly is engaged in (i) the business of oil or gas exploration or production or (ii) any other business in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is engaged as of the Effective Date.
Restrictions on Competition
Competitor
 
15.      
Certain Remedies.
 
(a)      Without intending to limit the remedies available to the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, including, but not limited to, those set forth in Section 15(b) hereof, you agree that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this Agreement may result in material and irreparable injury to the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of such a breach or threat thereof, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates will be entitled to seek a temporary restraining order or a preliminary or permanent injunction, or both, without bond or other security, restraining you from engaging in activities prohibited by the covenants contained in this Agreement or such other relief as may be required specifically to enforce any of the covenants contained in this Agreement.  Such injunctive relief in any court shall be available to the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in lieu of, or prior to or pending determination in, any arbitration proceeding.
Remedies.  
 
(b)      .  In the event that you (i) file any charge, claim, demand, action or arbitration with regard to your employment, compensation or termination of employment under any federal, state or local law, or an arbitration under any industry regulatory entity, except in either case for a claim for breach of this Agreement or failure to honor the obligations set forth herein, or (ii) breach any of
Cessation of Payments and Benefits
 
 
5
 
 
the covenants contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to cease making any payments or providing any benefits due hereunder.
 
16.      .
Section 409A
 
(a)      .  The intent of the parties is that the payments and benefits under this Agreement comply with or be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and interpretive guidance promulgated thereunder (collectively, Section 409A) and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted to be in compliance therewith.  The Company and you shall take commercially reasonable efforts to reform or amend any provision hereof consistent with the foregoing intent of the parties to the extent that the Company reasonably determines that such provision would or could reasonably be expected to cause you to incur any additional tax or interest under Section 409A, provided that any such modifications shall not increase the, or result in any, cost or liability to the Company.
General
 
(b)      .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any compensation or benefits payable under this Agreement that is designated under this Agreement as payable upon your termination of employment shall (subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code) be payable only upon your separation from service with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A.
Separation from Service
 
(c)      .  To the extent that any reimbursements under this Agreement are subject to Section 409A, any such reimbursements payable to you shall be paid to you no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred; provided that you submit your reimbursement request promptly following the date the expense is incurred in accordance with the Companys expense reimbursement policy, the amount of expenses reimbursed in one year shall not affect the amount eligible for reimbursement in any subsequent year, and your right to reimbursement under this Agreement will not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
Expense Reimbursements
 
17.      .
Miscellaneous
 
(a)      .  This Agreement and the Stock Option Agreements and Restricted Stock Unit Agreements described in Schedule A hereto set forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby and supersede and replace any express or implied prior agreement with respect to the terms of your employment and the termination thereof which you may have had with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  This Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
 
(b)      .  This Agreement will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Arkansas (determined without regard to the choice of law provisions thereof).
Governing Law
 
(c)      .  Any payments made or benefits provided to you under this Agreement will be reduced by any applicable withholding taxes.
Withholding Taxes
 
(d)      .  You affirm that you have read this Agreement, and understand all of its terms, includaing the full and final release of claims set forth in Section 11.  You further acknowledge that you have voluntrily entered into this Agreement; that you have not relied upon any representation or statement, written or oral, not set forth in this Agreement; that the only consideration for signing this Agreement is as set forth herein; and that this document gives you the opportunity and encourages you to have this Agreement reviewed by your attorney and/or tax advisor.
Voluntary Assent
 
 
6
 
 
(e)      .  The failure of either party to this Agreement to enforce any of its terms, provisions or covenants will not be construed as a waiver of the same or of the right of such party to enforce the same.  Waiver by either party hereto of any breach or default by the other party of any term or provision of this Agreement will not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default.
Waiver
 
(f)      .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remainder of the Agreement will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be excessively broad as to duration, activity or subject, such provision will be construed by limiting and reducing it so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent allowed by applicable law.
Severability
 
(g)      .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, which together will constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
(h)      .  Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by you and the Company and your and its respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
(i)      .  This Agreement may be revoked by you within the 7-day period commencing on the date you sign this Agreement (the ).  In the event of any such revocation by you, all obligations of the Company and you under this Agreement will terminate and be of no further force and effect as of the date of such revocation.  No such revocation by you will be effective unless it is in writing and signed by you and received by the Company prior to the expiration of the Revocation Period.
Revocation
Revocation Period
 
(j)      .  Any notices required or made pursuant to this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been given when delivered or mailed by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, as follows:
Notices
 
David M. Wood:
 
at the address reflected in the Companys records as of the Effective Date, as updated from time to time
 
if to the Company:
 
Murphy Oil Corporation
200 Peach Street, P.O. Box 7000,
El Dorado, Arkansas
Attention: General Counsel
 
 
7
 
 
 
or to such other address as either party may furnish to the other in writing in accordance with this Section 17(j).  Notices of change of address will be effective only upon receipt.
 
 
                                                                           
 
8
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, AR, June 20, 2012  The Board of Directors of Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE: MUR) (Murphy) today announced the appointment of Steve Coss as President and Chief Executive Officer, effectively immediately.  David Wood, the Companys current President, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors, will retire after a 17-year career at the Company and resign from his director position.  Murphys Board of Directors also named Roger Jenkins, the Companys Executive Vice President of Exploration & Production, to the newly-created position of Chief Operating Officer.
Steve Coss, a current member of Murphys Board of Directors, previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company.  During his tenure at Murphy, Mr. Coss also held positions as Senior Vice President, Vice President and Principal Financial Officer.  Prior to joining Murphy in 1991, Mr. Coss served as General Counsel for Ocean Drilling & Exploration Company in New Orleans, Louisiana, a NYSE listed majority owned subsidiary of Murphy at that time.
Roger Jenkins joined Murphy in 2001 and was named Executive Vice President of Exploration & Production in 2009.  He has played a critical leadership role in the Companys worldwide exploration and production operations, including the development of the Kikeh Field in Malaysia and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  Prior to joining Murphy, Mr. Jenkins spent 17 years with a major oil company.  Mr. Jenkins holds a bachelor's degree in Petroleum Engineering from Louisiana State University, an MBA from Tulane University and completed the Advanced Management Program from Harvard Business School.
David has accomplished a great deal during his tenure with the Company, the Board of Directors said in a statement.  We are grateful for his contribution and thank him for his dedication to Murphy.  Mr. Wood will remain a consultant to Murphy for a period of one year.
About Murphy Oil Corporation
Murphy Oil Corporation is an international oil and gas company that conducts business through various operating subsidiaries. The Company produces oil and/or natural gas in the United States, Canada, Malaysia, the United Kingdom and the Republic of the Congo and conducts exploration activities worldwide.  The Company owns marketing operations in the United States and the United Kingdom, including a refinery in Milford Haven, Wales. Murphy Oil USA, Inc. operates a retail gasoline network of over 1,100 stations in 23 states with these high-volume, low-cost outlets located primarily in the parking areas of Wal-Mart
 
 
 
 
 
Supercenters.  In addition, the Company operates a network of six owned petroleum product terminals and utilizes numerous third party terminals to provide fuel supply to the retail network.


