FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20121127084304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 27, 2012, Murphy Oil Corporation ("Murphy") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a preliminary prospectus supplement to its registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-184287), which included unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements ("Pro Formas") to show the pro forma impact of certain previously announced corporate transactions, including: (1) the planned sale of Murphy's exploration and production operations in the United Kingdom, (2) the planned spin-off of Murphy Oil USA, Inc. ("Murphy USA") into an independent and separately traded company, which is expected to be completed in 2013, (3) the special dividend of $2.50 per share, for a total dividend of approximately $500 million, payable on December 3, 2012 and (4) up to $1 billion of stock buybacks pursuant to Murphy's share repurchase program. This summary of the Pro Formas does not purport to be complete and is qualified entirely by reference to the full text of the Pro Formas, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This Item 8.01 contains statements of Murphy's expectations, intentions, plans and beliefs that are forward-looking, including but not limited to statements regarding its plans to sell Murphy's U.K. exploration and production operations, to spin off Murphy USA and to repurchase up to $1 billion of common stock pursuant to Murphy's share repurchase program, and are in each case dependent on certain events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside of Murphy's control. These forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Murphy's actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the volatility and level of crude oil and natural gas prices, the level and success rate of Murphy's exploration programs, Murphy's ability to maintain production rates and replace reserves, customer demand for Murphy's products, political and regulatory instability, and uncontrollable natural hazards, as well as those contained under the caption "Risk Factors" in Murphy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as updated in Murphy's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report:
99.1 Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Murphy Oil Corporation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 27, 2012
Exhibit Index
99.1 Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Murphy Oil Corporation

Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Murphy Oil Corporation have been derived from its historical consolidated financial statements and are being presented to give effect to certain corporate transactions as described below. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet has been prepared as though the spin-off of Murphy Oil Corporation's U.S. downstream subsidiary, Murphy Oil USA, Inc. ("Murphy USA"), the special dividend of $2.50 per share payable on December 3, 2012 (for a total dividend of approximately $500 million) and the $1 billion of stock buybacks each occurred on September 30, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statements have been prepared as though the separation of Murphy USA occurred on January 1, 2011. The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and accompanying notes.
The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and assumptions management believes are factually supportable and for income statement purposes recurring in nature. The pro forma adjustments to reflect the separation of Murphy USA include:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the above listed pro forma adjustments, the unaudited condensed consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a column to remove the exploration and production operations in the United Kingdom that became discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2012. These U.K. exploration and production operations are already reflected as discontinued operations in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2012.
No adjustments have been made for (1) the costs of operating after the separation of Murphy USA, (2) the potentially dilutive impact of changes to stock-based compensation resulting from any future separation or settlement agreements between Murphy Oil Corporation and Murphy USA, (3) the use of proceeds from the special cash distribution currently estimated at $250 million from Murphy USA to Murphy Oil Corporation and (4) any working capital adjustments to be determined after the separation of Murphy USA, because in each case the impact of such item is not factually supportable at this time.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are for illustrative purposes only, and do not reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had the separation of Murphy USA, the payment of the special dividend and the completion of the maximum $1 billion of stock buybacks occurred on the dates indicated and are not necessarily indicative of our future financial position and future results of operations.
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


