FILE:MUR/MUR-8K-20120203094053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers
On February 2, 2012, Murphy Oil Corporation issued a press release announcing the promotion of Bill Stobaugh to Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning & Business Development. Mr. Stobaugh's compensatory arrangement set by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company includes an annual salary of $495,000 and a target bonus equal to 85% of annual salary under the Company's 2007 Annual Incentive Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 2, 2012
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL DORADO, Arkansas, February 2, 2012  Murphy Oil Corporation (NYSE:MUR) announced today the following promotions, effective February 1, 2012.
has been promoted to Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning & Business Development. Stobaugh joined Murphy Oil Corporation in May 1995 as Vice President, Corporate Planning in El Dorado, Arkansas. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning in May 2005.
Bill Stobaugh
Stobaugh received a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology and also holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.
In his new position, Stobaugh will continue to report to David Wood, President and Chief Executive Officer.
has been promoted to Vice President, Corporate Planning & Business Development for Murphy Oil Corporation. Mireles joined Murphy Exploration & Production Company in August 2005 as Senior Staff Analyst in the Frontier E&P Department at Houston, Texas. In 2007 he was promoted to Manager, Business Development and became Senior Manager, Business Development in 2009. He was promoted to General Manager, Planning & Analysis in June 2010.
Tom Mireles
Mireles holds bachelor's and master's degrees in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A & M University and an MBA from the London Business School.
In his new position, Mireles will continue to report to Stobaugh.


