FILE:GE/GE-8K-20030711081056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On July 11, 2003, General Electric Company ("GE") issued a press release setting forth GE's second-quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of GE's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(a) and hereby incorporated by reference. This press release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly related comparable GAAP measure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(b).
 
Exhibit Index
 
99(a) Press release, dated: July 11, 2003, issued by General Electric Company
 
99(b) Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 11, 2003
 

Exhibit 99(a)
 
 
 
 
GE's second quarter 2003 earnings were $3.8 billion, or $.38 per share, compared with $4.4 billion, or $.44 per share, in second quarter 2002, the Company announced today.
Fairfield, Conn., July 11, 2003
 
"We delivered another quarter of broad-based performance in a tough economy, with eight of our 13 businesses achieving double-digit earnings growth while we managed through the downturn in Power Systems' sales of large gas turbines," said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. "At the same time, we made further progress on building the foundation of our future growth.
 
"We introduced new products in the quarter ranging from a new version of our Lightspeed
16
CT scanner to a new intelligent clothes-care system, and we passed several technology milestones, including successful tests of our new H System gas turbine, our GE90-115B jet engine, and our GE Evolution Series locomotive. We had terrific customer wins, including NBC's successful Olympics bid and its upfront advertising sales, Wind Energy's strong stream of orders and Aircraft Engines' regional jet wins with JetBlue and US Airways. We added to our growth platforms with agreements for acquisitions in security, healthcare IT, and U.S. consumer finance, and we took major steps in transforming our portfolio with agreements to sell two of our insurance units.
 
"The year is turning out as planned," Immelt said. "As expected, the ramp-down of our turbine shipments in the first half created earnings pressure. However, we are executing with broad-based strength to generate significant growth in the second half. We see nine of 13 businesses growing in double digits and more favorable comparisons in Power Systems and Insurance."
 
GE will discuss second quarter results and, as previously announced, narrow its full-year earnings outlook within the current range of $1.55-$1.70 per share on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. EDT today. Call information and related charts are available at .
www.ge.com/investor
 
Second Quarter 2003 Financial Highlights
 
businessesCommercial Finance, Consumer Finance, Consumer Products, Industrial Systems, Insurance, Medical Systems, NBC and Specialty Materialsachieved double-digit earnings growth during the quarter. As expected, their performance was more than offset by the impacts of the anticipated down cycle in sales of large gas turbines at Power Systems, and the combined effects of lower volume and higher oil-related raw material costs at Plastics.
 
 
 
"We are executing on a disciplined strategy to create growth with high returns," Immelt said. "GE is meeting its commitments despite a slow-growth economy. I'm proud of the GE team."
 
Second Quarter 2003 Business Highlights
 
Aircraft Engines (GEAE)
 
NBC
 
 
Consumer Finance
 
 
Commercial Finance
 
 
Power Systems (GEPS)
 
 
Medical Systems (GEMS)
 
 
Industrial Systems (GEIS)
 
 
Specialty Materials (GESM)
 
Insurance (GEI)
 
 
Consumer Products (GECP)
 
 
Transportation Systems (GETS)
 
 
Plastics (GEP)
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified technology and services company dedicated to creating products that make life better. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, television programming and plastics, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
http://www.ge.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors. More information about those factors is contained in GE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by SEC rules, we have provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which is available in our GAAP Reconciliation file on our investor relations website at
http://www.ge.com/en/company/investor/webcast/webcast_071103.htm
or
http://www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secreport/reclass/sec8k2003ge.htm
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts in millions; per share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and Financial Services (GECS) have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2002 Annual Report to Share Owners for further information about the consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and Financial Services (GECS) have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2002 Annual Report to Share Owners for further information about consolidation matters.
Summary of Operating Segments
General Electric Company and Consolidated Affiliates
 
 

Exhibit 99(b)
 
 
The press release dated July 11, 2003, which announces earnings for our second quarter includes "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by SEC rules. Specifically, the release refers to:
 
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, significant trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see the sales of our industrial businesses without the effects of the long-anticipated down cycle in Power Systems.
 
In other cases, we believe the timing and magnitude of progress collections from customers may obscure an assessment of the repeatability and comparability of cash flow from operating activities. Accordingly, in addition to the reported cash flow from operations, we have provided investors information that excludes the unique effects of progress collections on our operating cash flows.
 
We also believe that disclosures of certain financial measures are useful to investors in comparing the results of our businesses to other businesses in the same industry that use the same performance measures. Consequently, we have provided the combined net revenues of our lending and leasing businesses for comparability to other financial services businesses whose results are sensitive to interest rates and financing costs.
 
 
 
 
($ in Millions)
 
 
 
 
 


