FILE:GE/GE-8K-20031119085100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Item 5. Other Events
On November 18, 2003, General Electric Company (GE) issued a press release announcing its intention to pursue an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company named Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth) that will comprise most of its life and mortgage insurance operations. GE expects to file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the first half of January 2004 and complete the IPO in the first half of 2004, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
GE plans to sell approximately 30% of the equity of the new company in the IPO, and expects, subject to market conditions, to reduce its ownership position over the next three years as Genworth transitions to being a fully independent company. The amount GE will receive in the IPO will depend on market conditions and on other factors. GE intends to use the proceeds to invest in growth initiatives and reduce "parent-support debt" at GE Capital.
GE has previously announced its intent to reduce the level of its insurance-related assets from approximately 40% to approximately 15% of its total financial services assets. The businesses GE will contribute to the new company represented approximately 20% of GE's financial services assets and approximately half of the assets of GE's Insurance segment at September 30, 2003. As of that date, the businesses had a book value of approximately $10 billion, net of assets to be retained by GE.
GE Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc. (GEFAHI, the holding company for GE's principal U.S. life and mortgage insurance operations) will transfer substantially all of its businesses to Genworth. In addition, GE will transfer its international mortgage insurance and European payment protection businesses to Genworth. GE will retain certain consumer marketing and financing operations, including GE Mortgage - Mexico and the Partnership Marketing Group, as well as U.K.-based GE Life. GE will also retain an interest in certain run-off blocks of U.S. insurance business. GE's other principal insurance business, Employers Reinsurance Corporation, will not be part of the IPO.
In connection with the transfer of substantially all of GEFAHI's assets to Genworth, Genworth will assume GEFAHI's obligations under its outstanding yen-denominated notes due 2011. To facilitate the transition to the new company, GEFAHI's commercial paper program will be unconditionally guaranteed by GE Capital Corporation and will not be assumed by Genworth.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure".
On November 18, 2003, General Electric Company issued a press release announcing its intention to pursue an initial public offering of Genworth Financial, Inc. A copy of GE's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(a) and hereby incorporated by reference.
On November 19, 2003, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GE's earnings outlook for the fourth quarter of 2003 and for 2004 and 2005. A copy of GE's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(b) and hereby incorporated by reference.
Exhibit Index
99(a) Press release, dated: November 18, 2003, issued by General Electric Company. 
99(b) Press release, dated: November 19, 2003, issued by General Electric Company.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99(a)
     Fairfield, Conn., November 18, 2003
- -- GE announced today its intention to pursue an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company named Genworth Financial, Inc. that will comprise most of its life and mortgage insurance operations. GE expects to file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the first half of January 2004 and complete the IPO in the first half of 2004, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
"This IPO is both an important step in the transformation of GE and a significant opportunity for Genworth," said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. "We continue to execute on the clear portfolio and capital allocation strategies that we have articulated to create a faster-growth GE. We have made tremendous progress, but in doing so we have limited the capital available to our insurance businesses. As a separate public company, Genworth will be able to pursue its own strategy with direct access to the capital markets to fund its own business initiatives."
     
GE will hold an investor meeting and conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday, November 19, to discuss the significance of this move to GE and the GE earnings outlook for 2004. The meeting and related materials will be Webcast at www.ge.com/investor.
     
GE plans to sell approximately 30% of the equity of the new company in the IPO, and expects, subject to market conditions, to reduce its ownership position over the next three years as Genworth transitions to being a fully independent company. The amount GE will receive in the IPO will depend on market conditions and on other factors. GE intends to use the proceeds to invest in growth initiatives and reduce "parent-support debt" at GE Capital.
     
GE has previously announced its intent to reduce the level of its insurance-related assets from approximately 40% to approximately 15% of its total financial services assets. The businesses GE will contribute to the new company represented approximately 20% of GE's financial services assets and approximately half of the assets of GE's Insurance segment at September 30, 2003. As of that date the businesses had a book value of approximately $10 billion, net of assets to be retained by GE.
     
GE Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc. (GEFAHI, the holding company for GE's principal U.S. life and mortgage insurance operations) will transfer substantially all of its businesses to Genworth. In addition, GE will transfer its international mortgage insurance and European payment protection businesses to Genworth. GE will retain certain consumer marketing and financing operations, including GE Mortgage - Mexico and the Partnership Marketing Group, as well as U.K.-based GE Life. GE will also retain an interest in certain run-off blocks of U.S. insurance business. GE's other principal insurance business, Employers Reinsurance Corporation, will not be part of the IPO.
     
All of GE's insurance companies will continue to serve their policyholders and distributors and conduct business as usual throughout the IPO process.
     
In connection with the transfer of substantially all of GEFAHI's assets to Genworth, Genworth will assume GEFAHI's obligations under its outstanding yen-denominated notes due 2011. To facilitate the transition to the new company, GEFAHI's commercial paper program will be unconditionally guaranteed by GE Capital Corporation and will not be assumed by Genworth.
     
This press release is not an offer to sell, or solicitation of offers to buy, any securities.
     
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified technology and services company dedicated to creating products that make life better. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, television programming and plastics, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements contained in this report that are not historical facts as well as statements identified by words such as "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "plans", "believes", "seeks", "estimates" or words of similar meaning. These statements are based on our current beliefs or expectations and are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield David Frail, 203/373-3387 david.frail@corporate.ge.com

Exhibit 99(b)
     Fairfield, Conn., Nov. 19, 2003 
The transformation of GE's business portfolio for faster long-term growth in earnings, cash and returns is on track, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt told investors today.
     Immelt discussed the company's plan announced yesterday to pursue an initial public offering (IPO) of Genworth Financial, Inc., and made the following points about the company's earnings outlook:
, up approximately 45% from fourth quarter 2002. Eleven of GE's 13 businesses are expected to have double-digit earnings growth in the quarter. For the full year, cash flow from operating activities (CFOA) should be up 24% over the previous year to approximately $12.5 billion.*
Fourth quarter earnings remain on track for $.45-$.47 per share
 
, emphasizing faster-growth, higher-return businesses and eliminating "parent support debt" ahead of the company's plan.
The Genworth Financial IPO significantly advances GE's financial services strategy
 
Continued strong operating performance, with double-digit growth from 11 of 13 businesses, will be partially offset by the impact of lower pension income (a non-cash item) and the final year of lower earnings at Power Systems as a result of declining gas turbine sales.*
GE expects 2004 earnings from its businesses to be $1.55-$1.65 per share.
 
The combined impact of the Amersham and VUE transactions would be modestly dilutive, as six months of earnings in the second half of the year would only partially offset the effect of issuing additional shares.*
GE estimates that 2004 earnings reflecting the impact of the Genworth, Amersham and Vivendi Universal Entertainment transactions (assuming for this purpose that they all closed at mid-year), would be $1.50-$1.60 per share.
 
CFOA is expected to increase 10-15% over 2003. This will be the 28 consecutive year in which GE has increased its dividend.*
With strong cash growth anticipated in 2004, the company intends to increase its quarterly dividend 5% to $.20 per share.
th
 
"We have strong operating momentum through 2004 and into 2005," Immelt said. "Eleven of our 13 businesses should be growing double-digit, with Power Systems increasing earnings on the strength of its service business and growth platforms. At the same time, we will enjoy a full year of earnings from the exciting transactions that will create GE Healthcare Technologies and NBC Universal."*
GE is positioned for double-digit growth in 2005.
     "The transactions we have announced in the last 45 days deliver the major elements of our portfolio transformation," Immelt said. "We have built a stronger company with a faster-growth set of businesses. GE is in great shape."
     GE will discuss its outlook in greater detail at its regular annual outlook meeting for investors on December 16.
     This press release is not an offer to sell, or solicitation of offers to buy, any securities.
     GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified technology and services company dedicated to creating products that make life better. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, television programming and plastics, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
* The forward looking statements in this document relating to the financial performance of GE have not been prepared or verified to the standards required by the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, including its requirements for reports by auditors and financial advisors.
The contents of this document are not intended to mean that GE earnings or earnings per share for any period will necessarily exceed those of any prior year.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements contained in this report that are not historical facts as well as statements identified by words such as "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "plans", "believes", "seeks", "estimates" or words of similar meaning. These statements are based on our current beliefs or expectations and are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield David Frail, 203/373-3387 david.frail@corporate.ge.com


