FILE:GE/GE-8K-20040915092006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
Item 8.01. Other Events
General Electric Company grants various awards to its executive officers under the General Electric 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan. Forms of award grant agreements are attached hereto as exhibits and are hereby incorporated by reference.
     
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits.
     The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Stock Option Grant - additional terms & conditions
1. . The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ("Committee") of the General Electric Company ("Company") has granted Options to the named individual ("Grantee"). Each Option entitles the Grantee to purchase from the Company one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share, at the Option Exercise Price in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
Grant of Options
2. . Options shall become exercisable only at and after the Exercisable Dates, and shall expire on the Expiration Date, except as follows:
Exercisability and Expiration Date
     a. . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of the Grantee's death, then any unexercisable Options shall become immediately exercisable, and any unexercised Options shall expire on the Expiration Date, provided however, that if the Expiration Date is less than 2 years after the Grantee's death, then the Options shall not expire until 2 years after the Grantee's death.
Employment Termination Due to Death
     b. . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of employment by a successor employer to which the Company has transferred a business operation, then any unexercisable Options shall become immediately exercisable, and any unexercised Options shall expire 5 years after termination of service or on the Expiration Date, whichever date occurs first, provided however, that if the Grantee dies less than 2 years before the earlier of such dates, then the Options shall not expire until 2 years after the Grantee's death.
Employment Termination Due to Transfer of Business to Successor Employer
     c. . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates for any reason other than death or due to transfer of business to successor employer before the first anniversary of the Grant Date, then all unexercised Options, whether or not exercisable on the date of termination, shall immediately expire upon such termination.
Employment Termination Less Than One Year After Grant Date
     d. . If, on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date, the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of any of the reasons set forth below, each as defined below or determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee, then the Exercisable Dates and Expiration Date shall be automatically adjusted as provided below:
Employment Termination More Than One Year After Grant Date
           (i) . If (a) the Grantee is a participant in the U.S. GE Pension Plan and Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of retirement under the U.S. GE Pension Plan, or (b) the Grantee is not a participant in the U.S. GE Pension Plan and Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of retirement under another retirement plan or program of the Company or any of its affiliates on or after Grantee has attained age 60 and accumulated 5 or more years of combined service with the Company and any of its affiliates, or (c) the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of a total disability, i.e., the inability to perform any job for which the Grantee is reasonably suited by means of education, training or experience, then any unexercisable Options shall become immediately exercisable, and any unexercised Options shall expire on the Expiration Date, provided however, that if the Grantee dies less than 2 years before such Expiration Date, then the Options shall not expire until 2 years after the Grantee's death.
Termination for Retirement or Total Disability
           (ii) . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of voluntary termination or termination for cause, then all unexercised Options, whether or not exercisable on the date of termination, shall immediately expire.
Voluntary Termination or Termination for Cause
           (iii) . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of a layoff or plant closing, each as defined in the Company's U.S. Layoff Benefit Plan, then Options covered by the first installment of this Grant shall become immediately exercisable if they are not already exercisable, and any unexercised Options shall expire 1 year after termination of service or on the Expiration Date, whichever date occurs first, provided however, that if the Grantee dies before the earlier of such dates, then the Options shall not expire until 2 years after the Grantee's death, and provided further that in no event shall Options covered by the second or later installments of this Grant become exercisable if they were not exercisable on the date of such termination of service.
Termination for Layoff or Plant Closing
           (iv) . If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates for any other reason, and the Grantee and the Company have not entered into a written separation agreement explicitly providing otherwise in accordance with rules and procedures adopted by the Committee, then no unexercisable Options shall become exercisable and any unexercised Options which are exercisable on the date of termination shall expire 3 months after such termination or on the Expiration Date, whichever date occurs first, provided however, that if the Grantee dies before the earlier of such dates, then the Options which are exercisable on the date of termination of service shall not expire until 2 years after the Grantee's death.
Termination Due to Other Reasons
     e. . For purposes of this Grant, "affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is owned 50% or more by the Company and thereby deemed under its control and (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest as determined by the Committee. Transfer of employment among the Company and any of its affiliates is not a termination of service for purposes of this Grant.
Affiliate
     a. . The Grantee may exercise some or all of the Options then exercisable by giving the Company notice of the number of Options to be exercised either in writing or by such other means as shall be acceptable to the Company. At or before issuance by the Company of the shares to the Grantee pursuant to the Option exercise, the Grantee shall make payment of the Option Exercise Price in U.S. funds, or the equivalent thereof acceptable to the Company, at the office of the Comptroller of the Company, or such other place as may be mutually acceptable to the Company and the Grantee.
Notice and Manner of Exercise
     b. . Upon the exercise of any Option, the Grantee shall pay to or reimburse the Company for any federal, state, local taxes or foreign taxes required to be withheld and paid over by it, at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Company may prescribe.
Withholding Tax
     c. . Upon the receipt of all required payments from the Grantee, the Company thereupon shall, without additional expense to the Grantee (other than any transfer or issue taxes if the Company so elects), deliver to the Grantee by mail or otherwise at such place as the Grantee may request a certificate or certificates for such shares, provided however, that the date of issuance or delivery may be postponed by the Company for such period as may be required for it with reasonable diligence to comply with any applicable listing requirements of any national securities exchange and requirements under any law or regulation applicable to the issuance or transfer of such shares.
Delivery
4. . The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any Options without the consent of the Grantee. Also, the Options shall be null and void to the extent the grant of Options or exercise thereof is prohibited under the laws of the country of residence of the Grantee.
Alteration/Termination
5. . All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request.
Plan Terms
6. . This Grant, the Plan, and the rules and procedures adopted by the Committee, contain all of the provisions applicable to the Options and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Grantee.
Entire Agreement
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 as amended.

Exhibit 10.2
Restricted Stock Unit Grant - additional terms & conditions
The Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company ("Company") has granted Restricted Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents ("RSUs") to the named individual ("Grantee"). Each RSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share ("Common Stock") for which the restrictions set forth in paragraph 3 lapse in accordance with their terms, and (ii) quarterly cash payments equivalent to the dividend paid to shareholders of such stock, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
1. 
Grant of Restricted Stock Units.
. Until the Grantee's employment with the Company and its affiliates is terminated for any reason, or until such time as the following restrictions lapse, whichever occurs first, the Company will pay the Grantee a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Company's Common Stock, with such payments to be made reasonably promptly after the payment date of each quarterly dividend.
2. 
Dividend Equivalents
Restrictions on the RSUs will lapse on the designated Restriction Lapse Dates only if the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company or one of its affiliates to such dates. RSUs shall be immediately cancelled upon termination of employment, except as follows:
3. 
Restrictions.
If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of the Grantee's death, then restrictions on all RSUs shall immediately lapse.
a.
Employment Termination Due to Death.
If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of employment by a successor employer to which the Company has transferred a business operation, then restrictions on any RSUs shall continue to lapse in accordance with the Restriction Lapse Dates.
b.
Employment Termination Due to Transfer of Business to Successor Employer
If, on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date, the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of any of the reasons set forth below, each as defined below or determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee, then restrictions on RSUs shall automatically lapse or the RSUs shall be cancelled as provided below:
c.
Employment Termination More Than One Year After Grant Date.
Restrictions on all RSUs shall immediately lapse if (a) the Grantee is a participant in the U.S. GE Pension Plan and Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of retirement under the U.S. GE Pension Plan, or (b) the Grantee is not a participant in the U.S. GE Pension Plan and Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of retirement under another retirement plan or program of the Company or any of its affiliates on or after Grantee has attained age 60 and accumulated 5 or more years of combined service with the Company and any of its affiliates, or (c) the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of a total disability, i.e., the inability to perform any job for which the Grantee is reasonably suited by means of education, training or experience.
(i) 
Termination for Retirement or Total Disability
(ii)  If the Grantee's service with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates as a result of a layoff or plant closing, each as defined in the Company's U.S. Layoff Benefit Plan, then restrictions on RSUs scheduled to lapse on the first Restriction Lapse Date shall immediately lapse, and the remaining RSUs covered by this Grant shall be immediately cancelled.
Termination for Layoff or Plant Closing
d. For purposes of this Grant, "affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is owned 50% or more by the Company and thereby deemed under its control and (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest as determined by the Committee. Transfer of employment among the Company and any of its affiliates is not a termination of service for purposes of this Grant.
Affiliate.
The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any RSUs without the consent of the Grantee. Also, the RSUs shall be null and void to the extent the grant of RSUs or the lapse of restrictions thereon is prohibited under the laws of the country of residence of the Grantee. Any RSUs for which the restrictions do not lapse in accordance with the terms in paragraph 3 above shall be cancelled. The Committee may, in circumstances determined in its sole discretion, provide for the lapse of the above restrictions at earlier dates.
4. 
Alteration/Termination.
All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request.
5. 
Plan Terms.
This Grant, the Plan, and the rules and procedures adopted by the Committee contain all of the provisions applicable to the RSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Grantee.
6. 
Entire Agreement.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant - additional terms & conditions
The Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company ("Company") has granted Restricted Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents ("RSUs") to the named individual ("Grantee"). Each RSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share, (ii) quarterly cash payments equivalent to the dividend paid to shareholders of such stock, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
1. 
Grant of Restricted Stock Units.
The Company will deliver to the Grantee one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 for each RSU of the Grant for which the restrictions set forth in paragraph 4 lapse in accordance with their terms.
2.
 Restricted Stock Units
. Until the Grantee's employment with the Company and its affiliates is terminated for any reason, or until such time as the following restrictions lapse, whichever occurs first, the Company will pay the Grantee a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Company's Common Stock, with such payments to be made reasonably promptly after the payment date of each quarterly dividend.
3. 
Dividend Equivalents
Restrictions on the RSUs will lapse on the designated Restriction Lapse Dates only if the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company or one of its affiliates to such dates. The Committee may, in circumstances determined in its sole discretion, provide for the lapse of the above restrictions at earlier dates. Notwithstanding the forgoing, restrictions on all RSUs will immediately lapse upon the Grantee's termination of employment with the Company or any of its affiliates by reason of the Grantee's death, provided the Grantee had been continuously employed as provided above to the date of termination.
4. 
Restrictions.
The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any RSUs without the consent of the Grantee. Also, any RSUs for which the restrictions do not lapse in accordance with the terms in paragraph 4 above shall be canceled.
5. 
Alteration/Termination.
All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan. This grant incorporates and is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request, and such provisions shall be deemed a part of the Grant for all purposes.
6. 
Plan Terms.
This Grant, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contain all of the provisions applicable to the RSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized office of the Company and delivered to the Grantee.
7. 
Entire Agreement.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
The Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company ("Company") approved a Contingent Long Term Performance Award ("Award") for [NAME] ("Grantee), under and subject to the terms of the Company's 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"). This Award provides a potential payment to the Grantee in [PAYMENT DATE] that, in accordance with the terms of the Award, will be based upon the attainment of certain financial performance goals from [START DATE] through [END DATE] and the Grantee's annual total compensation rate as of [SALARY DATE], each as explained below.  
Grant of Contingent Long Term Performance Award
.
This Award was made to provide additional emphasis on and incentive for the attainment of the following important financial performance goals for the Company on an overall basis during the XXX-year performance period from [START DATE] through [END DATE].
.
Purpose of Award and Financial Performance Goals
     
Attainment of the performance goals will be determined solely by the Committee and will be based on the financial performance results, adjusted for any unusual items, of the Company, all as defined and interpreted by the Committee.
. The Award will be payable in cash, or Company common stock, or a combination thereof, at the discretion of the Committee, to the Grantee in [PAYMENT DATE], provided the Committee determines that the Company has attained or exceeded at least one of its threshold goals set forth in the table above. The table below shows the percentage of the Grantee's annual total compensation rate as of [COMPENSATION DATE] (i.e., annual base salary rate at [SALARY DATE] and incentive compensation earned for [IC YEAR] and paid in [IC PAYMENT DATE]) that would be payable in [PAYMENT DATE] if the specified goals were to be precisely attained (i.e., threshold, target or maximum) for of the financial performance measurements set forth in the table above.
Payment
all
In calculating the actual amount of the payment, if any, that will be payable hereunder, each of the performance measurements will be weighted equally (i.e., 25%), and payment will be prorated if financial performance falls between goals. Payment will be reduced by any taxes that must be paid or withheld as determined by the Company.
 
. The Award will be cancelled if the Grantee's employment with the Company or any of its affiliates terminates before the payment of the Award for any reason other than death, retirement or disability. In addition, the Committee shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to waive any provisions of, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Award without the consent of the Grantee.  
Alteration/Termination
All terms used in this Award have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan. This Award incorporates the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request, and such provisions shall be deemed a part of the grant for all purposes.  
Plan Terms Incorporated.
. This Award and the Plan contain all of the provisions applicable to the Award granted herein and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, authorized by the Committee, and delivered to the Grantee.  
Modification, Waiver or Amendment
. The undersigned Grantee hereby acknowledges receipt of this Award and agrees to the terms herein. Without in any way limiting the authority of the Committee with respect to this Award, including Section 4 hereof, the Grantee agrees that:
Acknowledgement and Agreement
If, prior to the payment of the Award, the Grantee voluntarily terminates employment, or if the Grantee is removed from his or her position for any reason, the Grantee will not be entitled to any payment under this Award.
If the Grantee retires, becomes disabled, or dies prior to [END DATE] and would have received a payment under this Award, but for such retirement, disability, or death, the Grantee or the Grantee's estate in the case of death, will be given a pro-rata payment in [PAYMENT DATE], based on the number of months worked during the performance period, subject to the discretion of the Committee to reduce or cancel such payment.
. Any and all determinations with respect to the interpretation and application of this Award, including the attainment or measurement of performance goals and the determination of the Grantee's right to, or the amount (if any) of, any payment pursuant hereto, shall lie solely with the Committee. All such determinations are final and binding upon the Grantee, their estate, and any person seeking to assert a claim through or on their behalf, and neither the Grantee nor any other person shall have any right to appeal such determinations.
Interpretation and Application of Terms
                                   

Exhibit 10.5
Grant Date: XXX Restriction Lapse Date: XXX Value on Grant Date: XXX Dividend Equivalents: XXX
Performance Stock Unit Grant Certificate - additional terms
The Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company ("Company") has granted Performance Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents ("PSUs") to the named individual ("Grantee"). Each PSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share ("Common Stock"), for each PSU for which the restrictions set forth in paragraph 3 lapse in accordance with their terms, and (ii) quarterly cash payments equivalent to the dividend paid to shareholders of such stock, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.  
.
PSU Grant
. Until the Grantee's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason, or until such time as the following restrictions lapse, whichever occurs first, the Company will pay the Grantee on a quarterly basis a cash amount equal to the number of PSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Company's Common Stock, with such payments to be made reasonably promptly after the payment date of each quarterly dividend.  
Dividend Equivalents
Restrictions on XX% of the PSUs shall lapse on the Restriction Lapse Date if (i) the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company to such date and (ii) the Company's Average Annual Total Shareowner % Return ("TSR") is equal to or exceeds the Average Annual Total Shareowner % Return for the S&P 500 companies ("S&P 500 TSR") for the XX-year period of [START DATE] to [END DATE]. Restrictions on the other XX% of the PSUs shall lapse on the Restriction Lapse Date if (i) the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company to such date and (ii) the Company's average annual % growth in Cash Flow from Operating Activities ("CFOA"), adjusted to exclude the effect of unusual events, is equal to or exceeds XX% for the XX-year period of [START DATE] to [END DATE]. Measurement of TSR and CFOA shall be determined in accordance with the customary accounting and financial reporting practices utilized by the Company according to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). PSUs for which restrictions do not lapse in accordance with this paragraph shall be immediately cancelled.  
.
Restrictions/Performance Goals
The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any PSUs without the consent of the Grantee.  
.
Alteration/Termination
All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request.  
.
Plan Terms
This Grant, the Plan, and the rules and procedures adopted by the Committee, contain all of the provisions applicable to the PSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by the Chairman of the Committee and delivered to the Grantee.
.
Entire Agreement
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
 


