FILE:GE/GE-8K-20040330120626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
 
The information included in this Form 8-K affects only disclosures related to segment results, and does not in any way restate or revise the financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any reported Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Earnings, Statement of Changes in Shareowners' Equity or Statement of Cash Flows of General Electric Company (GE) and consolidated affiliates, or the consolidating financial statements of GE or GE Capital Services, Inc. (GECS).
 
As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (2003 Form 10-K), we reorganized our businesses on January 1, 2004. As a result of reorganizing our businesses around markets and customers, we reduced our number of reporting segments from 14 to 11. We believe this simplified organization will help us achieve lower costs of operations in platforms that will accommodate our future growth. Our 11 reporting segments as of January 1, 2004, were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More detailed business descriptions are presented in the exhibits referred to below.
 
As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, consolidated financial statements issued by GE in the future will reflect modifications to our reportable segments resulting from these organizational changes, including reclassification of all comparative prior period segment information. Accordingly, in this Form 8-K, we are providing the required reclassified information about this reorganization as it relates to prior periods.
 
The attached exhibits provide two views of the reclassifications resulting from the organizational changes. Exhibits 99(a) and 99(b) set out the portions of the 2003 Form 10-K that are most affected by these changes, while exhibit 99(c) sets out reclassified 2003 and 2002 unaudited segment data by quarter. Exhibit 99(d) contains the complete Management's Discussion and Analysis and consolidated financial statements from the 2003 Form 10-K for which the segment information has been reclassified to conform to the new segment presentation. These financial statements, conformed for the changes, are our historical financial statements.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 30, 2004
 

Exhibit 23
 
 
The Board of Directors
General Electric Company
 
We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-50639, 33-39596, 33-39596-01, 33-29024, 333-59671, 333-96571, 333-104526 and 333-110771), on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-107556) and on Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 333-01953, 333-42695, 333-74415, 333-83164, 333-98877, 333-94101, 333-65781, 333-88233, 333-57734, 333-99671 and 333-102111) of General Electric Company of our report dated February 6, 2004, except as to page 48 and notes 10, 12, 13, 16 and 27, which are as of March 29, 2004, relating to the statement of financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, which report appears in the Form 8-K of General Electric Company dated March 30, 2004. Our report refers to changes in the methods of accounting for variable interest entities and for asset retirement obligations in 2003, changes in the methods of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets and for stock-based compensation in 2002, and changes in the methods of accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities and impairment of certain beneficial interests in securitized assets in 2001.
 
KPMG LLP
Stamford, Connecticut
 
March 29, 2004

Exhibit 99(a)
 
 
As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, we reorganized our businesses on January 1, 2004. As a result of reorganizing our businesses around markets and customers, we reduced our number of reporting segments from 14 to 11. We believe this simplified organization will help us achieve lower costs of operations in platforms that will accommodate our future growth. Our 11 reporting segments as of January 1, 2004, were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advanced Materials
 
Advanced Materials (5.3%, 5.3% and 5.6% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) includes high-performance plastics used by compounders, molders, and major original equipment manufacturers for use in a variety of applications, including fabrication of automotive parts, computer enclosures, compact disks and optical-quality media, major appliance parts, telecommunications equipment and construction materials. Our products also include structured products, silicones, high-purity quartzware and, until the sale of the Superabrasives business in late 2003, industrial grade and gem quality diamonds. Market opportunities are created by substituting many of these products for other materials, which can provide customers with productivity through improved material performance at lower system costs. These materials are sold to a diverse worldwide customer base, mainly manufacturers. Our business has a significant operating presence around the world and participates in numerous manufacturing and distribution joint ventures. In July 2003, we completed the acquisition of OSi Specialties, a leading, global supplier of silanes, specialty silicones and urethane additives. We also completed the divestiture of our Specialty Chemicals and Superabrasives units in 2003.
 
Our business environment is characterized by technological innovation and heavy capital investment. Being competitive requires emphasis on efficient manufacturing process implementation and significant resources devoted to market and application development. Competitors include large, technology-driven suppliers of the same, as well as other functionally equivalent, materials. The business is cyclical and is sensitive to variations in price and in the effects of supply/demand factors on the cost of raw materials, such as cumene, benzene and methanol. Availability of manufacturing capacity from the business or its competitors and anticipation of new product or material performance requirements are key factors affecting competition. Our application development, often in association with our existing or potential customers, and associated technology assistance have added additional market demand. In addition, product and manufacturing process patents establish barriers to entry in many product lines.
 
Advanced Materials is headquartered in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, and has operations in North America, Asia, Europe, and South America.
 
Commercial Finance
 
Commercial Finance (15.5%, 14.8% and 14.0% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively) offers an array of financial services worldwide. With particular expertise in the mid-market segment, we offer loans, leases, and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial and energy-related facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles; aircraft; and equipment used in many industries including the construction, manufacturing, telecommunications and healthcare industries.
 
We acquired the commercial inventory financing business of Deutsche Financial Services and the structured finance business of ABB in 2002, and most of the commercial lending business of Transamerica Finance Corporation in January 2004.
 
We operate in a highly competitive environment and are subject to competition from a variety of financial institutions including commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of interest rates and fees as well as deal structures and credit terms. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that impact customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risk. Important factors to continued success include maintaining strong risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diverse portfolios, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the reduction of costs through technology and productivity.
 
Commercial Finance headquarters are in Stamford, Connecticut with offices throughout the United States and in Canada, Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific.
 
Given the focus on a single form of collateral type, we have provided additional information on our Real Estate (commercial real estate) and Aviation Services (commercial aircraft) operating businesses.
 
Real Estate
 
Real Estate funds the direct acquisition, refinancing and renovation of real estate assets, and purchases equity investments in real estate properties. Real Estate loans generally are intermediate-term senior and subordinated fixed and floating-rate and are secured by existing income-producing commercial properties. Our business also includes the origination and term securitization within one year of low loan to value loans. We invest in and provide restructuring financing for portfolios of real estate, mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds. Additionally, we invest in equity positions in a diversified portfolio of real estate assets via direct real estate ownership and joint venture interests. Property types include office buildings, self-storage facilities, apartment buildings, retail facilities, industrial properties, franchise properties and parking facilities.
 
Aviation Services
 
Aviation Services is a global commercial aviation financial services business that offers a broad range of financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors. Financial products include leases, aircraft purchasing and trading, loans, engine/spare parts financing, pilot training, fleet planning and financial advisory services.
 
Consumer Finance
 
Consumer Finance (9.6%, 7.8% and 7.5% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively) is a leading provider of credit products and services to consumers, retailers and auto dealers in 38 countries. We offer a broad range of financial products, including private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans; leases and inventory financing; residential mortgages; corporate travel and purchasing cards; debt consolidation; home equity loans; and credit insurance. We acquired First National Bank and the retail sales finance unit of Conseco Finance Corp. in 2003 as part of our continued global expansion.
 
Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations, including regulations governing data privacy. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers' captive finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks of declining retails sales, changes in interest and currency exchange rates, and increases in personal bankruptcy filings.
 
Consumer Finance headquarters are in Stamford, Connecticut and our operations are located principally in the United States, and in Europe, Asia, Latin and South America, Australia and New Zealand.
 
Consumer & Industrial
 
Consumer & Industrial (9.6%, 9.7% and 10.3% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) deals with products characterized by high volume and relatively low unit prices. Consumer & Industrial products share several characteristics  competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Strong global competition rarely permits premium pricing, so cost control and productivity are key. Despite pricing pressures on many of its products, Consumer & Industrial also invests in the development of differentiated, premium products that are subject to less competitive pricing pressure. Scale is also important, and the combination of three separate industrial businesses facilitates synergies in headquarter, back office and distribution channel costs. While some Consumer & Industrial products are primarily directed to consumer applications (appliances, for example), and some primarily to industrial applications (switchgear, for example), others are directed to both markets (lighting, for example).
 
Consumer & Industrial is headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, and has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.
 
We describe the segment as follows according to market channel  Consumer, and Industrial including certain parts of GE Supply.
 
Consumer
 
We sell and service home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, ranges, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, speed cooking ovens, room air conditioners, and water systems for filtration, softening and heating. Brands are Monogram, GE Profile Performance, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and RCA.
 
We manufacture certain products, and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction are our second major U.S. channel. We offer the largest manufacturer's service organization in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair, extended service plans, warranty administration and risk management services. We also manufacture and sell approximately 6,000 various lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.
 
Industrial and GE Supply
 
Our industrial division provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture electrical distribution and control products including circuit breakers, panel boards and general purpose controls that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. In addition, we also design and manufacture motors and control systems used in end-industrial and consumer products such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning, dishwashers, and clothes washers and dryers. Another component of the business provides customer focused solutions centered on coordinated drives and the delivery and control of electric power. We also market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems and lighting for aircraft, automotive and other transportation applications, front and rear projection, video projection, medical, architectural, fiber optic, stage, studio, nightclub and theater applications.
 
The aggregate level of economic activity in markets for such products and services generally lag overall economic slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries. In the United States, industrial markets are undergoing significant structural changes reflecting, among other factors, increased international competition and pressures to modernize productive capacity.
 
GE Supply is a full-line, international distributor of electrical products and parts, power generation products, fasteners, lighting equipment and supplies from GE and other leading manufacturers. The business serves electrical contractors, industrial and commercial users, engineer constructors, original equipment manufacturers, utilities and the aerospace industry.
 
Energy
 
Energy (14.2%, 17.9% and 16.6% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide with products and services related to energy production, distribution and management. In 2003, we made several acquisitions, including Jenbacher A.G. of Austria. These acquisitions continue to improve our ability to serve our global customers and further add to the portfolio of complete solutions for the energy industry. The acquisition of Jenbacher A.G. added reciprocating gas engines to the portfolio. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio, which also includes hydropower and geothermal technology. The business also sells aircraft engine derivatives for use as industrial power sources. This activity is also reported in the Transportation segment. Gas turbines and generators are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. Our Oil and Gas business offers advanced technology turbomachinery products and services for production, liquid natural gas, transportation, storage, refineries, petrochemical and distribution systems. With the acquisition of PII Pipeline Solutions in 2002, the business acquired leading technology in total pipeline integrity solutions including analysis and pipeline asset management. Steam turbines and generators are sold to the electric utility industry and to private industrial customers for cogeneration applications. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling water reactors are also a part of this segment. A complete portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment upgrades, contractual services agreements, repairs, equipment installation, monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance optimization tools, remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning provides customers total solutions to meet their needs. We continue to invest in advanced technology development that will provide more value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today's strict environmental regulations.
 
Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for most power generation products and services is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which the business participates, and to regional load growth requirements and demand side management. In addition, internationally, the influence of available fuels and related prices has a large impact on demand. For information about orders and backlog, see page 50 of Exhibit 99(d).
 
Energy, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, operates in North America, Europe, South America and Asia.
 
Equipment & Other Services
 
Equipment & Other Services (3.3%, 4.2% and 6.1% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) helps customers manage, finance and operate a wide variety of business equipment worldwide. We provide rentals, leases, sales, asset management services and loans for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including tractors, trailers, railroad rolling stock, modular space units, intermodal shipping containers, computer networks, marine containers and autos. Our operations are conducted in highly competitive markets. Economic conditions, geographic location, pricing and equipment availability are important factors in this business. Future success will depend upon the ability to maintain a large and diverse customer portfolio, optimize asset mix, maximize asset utilization and effectively manage credit risk. In addition, we seek to understand and deliver unique product and service offerings to our customers in the most efficient and cost effective manner.
 
Also in the segment are activities and businesses that are not measured within one of the other financial services segments  for example, corporate expenses, liquidating businesses and other non-segment aligned operations.
 
Equipment & Other Services headquarters are located in Stamford, Connecticut with offices throughout the United States and in Canada, Mexico and Europe.
 
Healthcare
 
Healthcare (7.6%, 6.8% and 6.7% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment including equipment for magnetic resonance (MR), computed tomography (CT), Positron Emission Tomography (PET), x-ray, patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, nuclear imaging, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, neonatal and critical care and therapy. We sell product services to hospitals and medical facilities worldwide. Product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management and customer productivity services. In 2003, we acquired Instrumentarium and entered into an agreement to acquire Amersham plc, a world leader in diagnostic imaging agents and in life sciences.
 
Healthcare competes against a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout the world, we play a critical role in delivering new technology to improve patient outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs. For information about orders and backlog, see page 51of Exhibit 99(d).
 
Healthcare is headquartered in Waukesha, Wisconsin and operates in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia and South America.
 
Infrastructure
 
Infrastructure (2.3%, 1.4% and 0.3% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) is a high-technology platform comprising some of our fastest-growing businesses. We offer protection and productivity solutions to some of the most pressing issues that industries face: pure water, safe facilities, plant automation and sensing applications in the operating environment. Our business helps people protect families, property and communities. From home to industry to national security, our technology covers the full spectrum of security solutions, including high-tech video monitoring, intrusion and smoke detection, real estate and property control and explosives and narcotics detection. We are an industry leader in the design and manufacture of sensing elements, devices, instruments and systems that enable customers to monitor, protect, control and ensure the safety of their critical applications. Other products include precision sensors for temperature, pressure, humidity, gas, infrared and ultrasonic applications; high-quality handheld and portable field calibrators; stand-alone measurement instrumentation and systems that provide the end-to-end solutions necessary to validate or certify vital processes. We supply specialty chemicals, pumps, valves, filters, fluid handling equipment and related services for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems. We deliver automation hardware and software designed to help users reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance profitability through a diverse array of capabilities and products, including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, computer numerical controls, operator interfaces, industrial computers, and lasers. Our portfolio of products and services are sold to a diverse worldwide customer base in markets ranging from commercial and residential to transportation, industrial, pharmaceutical and healthcare.
 
Our business environment is characterized by technological innovation and market growth. Competitors include technology-driven suppliers of the same, as well as other functionally equivalent, products and services.
 
Infrastructure is headquartered in Wilton, Connecticut and has operations in North America, South America, Europe and Asia.
 
Insurance
 
Insurance (19.5%, 17.6% and 18.9% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) offers a broad range of insurance and investment products that help consumers create and preserve personal wealth, protect assets and enhance their life styles. For lenders and investors, it protects against the risks of default on low-down-payment mortgages. For businesses, we provide reinsurance and primary commercial insurance products to insurance companies, Fortune 100 companies, self-insurers and healthcare providers. Through December 2003, for state and local governments and other public entities, we offered financial guarantees for a variety of debt securities.
 
Our businesses are subject to intense competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in the sale of our products are product features, price, commission structure, marketing and distribution arrangements, brand, reputation, financial strength ratings and service. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from a number of significant demographic, governmental and market trends, including aging U.S. populations with growing retirement income needs and increased risk of outliving their savings, growing lifestyle protection gaps, and increasing opportunities for mortgage insurance in the U.S. and other countries.
 
During 2003, General Electric Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO) requested that its financial strength ratings be lowered from AAA/Aaa to AA/Aa2, positioning our United States business to operate at lower capital levels. This change improves our capital efficiency and return on equity while retaining a conservative risk-to-capital ratio.
 
In November 2003, we announced our intent for an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company, Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), comprising most of our life and mortgage insurance businesses. We plan to sell approximately one-third of Genworth's equity in the IPO, and we expect (subject to market conditions) to reduce our ownership over the next three years as Genworth transitions to full independence. We commenced the IPO process in January 2004 and expect to complete the IPO in the first half of the year, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
 
Insurance headquarters are located in Richmond, Virginia with offices throughout the United States and in Canada, Europe, Latin America, Australia and Asia Pacific.
 
GE Global Insurance Holding (Employers Reinsurance Corporation)
 
Through our principal insurance and reinsurance company affiliates  Employers Reinsurance Corporation, GE Reinsurance Corporation, the GE Frankona Group and the Medical Protective Corporation  we write substantially all lines of reinsurance (where the insured party is another insurance company) and select lines of direct property and casualty insurance (where the insured party is a non-insurance company or an individual).
 
The reinsurance operations include the reinsurance of property and casualty risks written by more than 1,000 insurers around the world. Direct insurance operations are focused on niche lines of business, principally medical malpractice coverage for physicians and dentists, medical professional liability for hospitals, errors and omissions coverage for insurance agents and brokers, professional liability insurance for attorneys, excess indemnity for self-insurers of medical benefits and excess workers' compensation for self-insurers. The life reinsurance affiliates are engaged in the reinsurance of life insurance products, including term, whole and universal life, annuities, certain health-related coverages and the provision of financial reinsurance to life insurers. During 2003,
 
we announced our intent to scale back on life reinsurance operations to improve overall returns and we ceased writing new life reinsurance business in the United States and sold our United States life reinsurance business  ERC Life Reinsurance Corporation.
 
Employers Reinsurance Corporation is one of the largest competitors in its marketplace. Our property and casualty reinsurance operations are ranked fifth in the world in terms of net premiums written and we compete with the world's largest reinsurers as well as dozens of smaller niche competitors. Our life reinsurance operations are ranked in the top four life reinsurers in the world.
 
Maintaining strong financial strength ratings is an important factor in remaining competitive in both the reinsurance and direct insurance markets in which we compete. During 2003, certain external credit rating agencies announced the lowering of financial strength ratings with respect to GE Global Insurance Holding and subsidiaries, citing poor recent operating performance as the principal factor. Rating agencies took similar actions to lower the ratings of many insurers and reinsurers in recent years. Debt ratings for GE Global Insurance Holding affect $1.7 billion of outstanding debt. While these ratings were lowered in 2003, they remain investment grade. We do not believe these actions will materially affect GE Global Insurance Holding liquidity or capital resources, or the ability to write future business.
 
NBC
 
NBC (5.1%, 5.4% and 4.6% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) is principally engaged in the broadcast of network television services to affiliated television stations within the United States; the production of live and recorded television programs; the operation, under licenses from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), of television broadcasting stations; the ownership of four cable/satellite networks around the world, and investment and programming activities in multimedia, the Internet and cable television. The NBC Television Network is one of four major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks and serves more than 230 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2003, we owned and/or operated 29 VHF and UHF television stations including those located in Birmingham, AL; Los Angeles, CA; San Diego, CA; Hartford, CT; Miami, FL; Chicago, IL; New York, NY; Raleigh-Durham, NC; Columbus, OH; Philadelphia, PA; Providence, RI; Dallas, TX; and Washington, DC. Broadcasting operations, including the NBC Television Network, Telemundo and owned stations are subject to FCC regulation. Our operations include investment and programming activities in cable television, principally through CNBC, MSNBC, CNBC Europe, and CNBC Asia; equity investments in Arts and Entertainment, The History Channel, ValueVision, Inc., and a non-voting interest in Paxson Communications Corporation. In 2002 we acquired the cable network Bravo. Our strategic alliance with Dow Jones merged the European and Asian business news services of Dow Jones with those of CNBC to form CNBC Europe and CNBC Asia and, in addition, permits us to use Dow Jones editorial resources in the United States. In 2002, we acquired Spanish language broadcaster, Telemundo. We have entered into long-term arrangements with Triple Crown Productions that gives us exclusive American broadcast rights to the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes and the Belmont Stakes through 2005; and the National Association For Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR) which, in conjunction with Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., gives us the exclusive television rights to 20 NASCAR races per year through 2006. The business has entered into a long-term arrangement with the United States Golf Association (USGA) that gives us exclusive national over-the-air broadcast rights to the USGA's major golf championships through the year 2005. We also have secured exclusive United States television rights to the 2004, 2006, 2008, 2010, 2012 Olympic Games.
 
In 2003, GE entered into a definitive agreement to merge NBC and Vivendi Universal Entertainment. The new company to be called NBC Universal, will be approximately 80% owned by GE and approximately 20% owned by Vivendi Universal S.A., and/or its subsidiaries.
 
NBC is headquartered in New York, New York.
 
Transportation
 
Transportation (10.1%, 10.4% and 11.0% of consolidated revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively) consists of Aircraft Engines and Rail.
 
Aircraft Engines produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft that includes fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft. The CFM56, produced by CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma Moteurs of France, and GE's CF6 and GE90 engines power aircraft in all categories of commercial aircraft: short/medium, intermediate and long-range. Applications for the CFM56 engine include: Boeing's 737-300/-400/-500 series, the next generation 737-600/-700/-800/-900 series, and the 737 business jet; Airbus' A318, A319, A320, A321 and A340-200/-300 series; and military aircraft such as the KC-135R, E/KE-3 and E-6. The CF6 family of engines powers intermediate and long-range aircraft such as Boeing's 747, 767, DC-10 and MD-11 series, as well as Airbus' A300, A310 and A330 series. The GE90 engine is used to power Boeing's 777 series twin-engine aircraft. The GP7200, being designed and marketed in a joint venture with the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation, is offered on Airbus' A380.
 
We produce jet engines, such as the CF34, for executive and regional aircraft, including Bombardier's Challenger 604 and CRJ200/700/900 series of aircraft and Embraer's 170 and 190 series of aircraft. A new version of the CF34, the CF34-10A, is currently being developed to power China's future ARJ21 regional aircraft. We also manufacture aircraft engine derivatives used for marine propulsion, mechanical drives and industrial power generation sources, the last of which is also reported as part of the Energy segment. Maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts, are provided for many models of engines, including repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors, and represent a significant portion of this business' profits. In December 2003, we completed the acquisition of the non-destructive testing (NDT) business of Agfa-Gevaert. This business has been combined with Aircraft Engines NDT business to offer radiographic, ultrasonic, eddy current and other inspection solutions that test the structure and tolerance of materials without damaging them.
 
The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures, both customer-financed and internally funded, are important in this business. Focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies are also important.
 
Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although cycles for military and commercial engine procurement are different.
 
Rail is one of the world's leading suppliers to the railroad, transit, and mining industries, providing freight and passenger locomotives, motorized drive systems for mining trucks and drills, diesel engines for marine and stationary markets, electrical propulsion and control systems for rapid transit cars, railway signaling and communications systems. Product services include maintenance and repair of locomotives, locomotive components, and communications and logistics systems for locomotive and train control. GE locomotives currently operate in more than 50 countries worldwide.
 
For information about orders and backlog, see pages 53 and 54 of Exhibit 99(d).
 
GE Transportation is headquartered in Evendale, Ohio and has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.
 

Exhibit 99(b)
 
Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations of the 2003 Form 10-K and notes 10, 12, 13, 16 and 27, of the audited consolidated financial statements of GE for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, all conformed to reflect the January 1, 2004, organizational changes.
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 
OPERATIONS
 
Our consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing and product services businesses of General Electric Company (GE) and the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services).
 
We present Management's Discussion of Operations in three parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2001 through 2003, Segment Operations and International Operations.
 
In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes refer to data derived from consolidated financial information but not required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to be presented in financial statements. Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanation and reconciliation provided on page 68 of exhibit 99(d).
 
With 11 operating segments, we will achieve lower costs of operations in platforms that will accommodate our future growth. The new segments most affected by this change follow:
ON JANUARY 1, 2004, WE SIMPLIFIED OUR ORGANIZATION.
 
 
Results in this financial section have been reclassified on the basis of that January 1, 2004, reorganization.
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to acquire U.K.-based Amersham plc, a world leader in medical diagnostics and life sciences. We also entered into an agreement to merge NBC with Vivendi Universal Entertainment to create one of the world's premier media companies, NBC Universal.
 
We announced in November 2003 our intent for an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company, Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), comprising most of our life and mortgage insurance businesses. We plan to sell approximately one-third of Genworth's equity in the IPO, and we expect (subject to market conditions) to reduce our ownership over the next three years as Genworth transitions to full independence. We commenced the IPO process in January 2004 and expect to complete the IPO in the first half of the year, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
 
Per-share dividends of $0.77 were up 5% from 2002, following an 11% increase from the preceding year. We have rewarded our shareowners with 28 consecutive years of dividend growth. Our dividend growth for the past five years has significantly outpaced dividend growth of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index.
WE DECLARED $7.8 BILLION IN DIVIDENDS IN 2003.
 
Except as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents the results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment Operations section on page 49 of exhibit 99(d) for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE and GECS.
 
 
Overview of Our Earnings from 2001 through 2003
 
The global economic environment must be considered when evaluating our 2001 to 2003 results. Important factors for us included slow global economic growth, a mild U.S. recession that did not cause significantly higher credit losses, lower global interest rates, distinct developments in three industries that are significant to us (power generation, property and casualty insurance and commercial aviation), and escalating raw material prices. As you will see in detail in the following pages, our diversification and risk management strategies reduced the earnings effects of many of the significant developments of the last three years.
 
If, for comparison, we adjust 2001 results for the required accounting change to stop goodwill amortization, our earnings would have increased modestly in percentage terms over this three-year period. This modest increase results from a combination of factors, both positive and negative.
 
First, consider two businesses whose results were noteworthy.
 
gas turbine units in 2002, reaching $0.09 per share growth in earningsup 29% from 2001. (Note that per-share results we present in this discussion are on a diluted basis.) The subsequent 2003 decline in shipments was reflected in the $0.14 per share drop in 2003 earnings. We foresaw the 2002 end of the "bubble" and took appropriate action to cushion the downturn, right-sizing the business and growing and investing in other lines of the power generation business such as product services and GE Wind. The result is an Energy business whose results are remarkable from any perspective save its own extraordinary recent history.
 
Most of our operations achieved operating results in line with expectations in the 2001 to 2003 economic environment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other factors that were important to our recent earnings performance included reduced earnings from our principal postretirement benefit plans (down $0.05 per share in 2003 following a decline of $0.04 per share in 2002) and unusual events in 2002 such as the gains on the sale of Global eXchange Services ($0.03 per share) and the Bravo exchange net of restructuring ($0.03 per share), as well as favorable tax settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in 2002 ($0.07 per share).
 
Acquisitions affected our operations and contributed $5.4 billion, $7.2 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, to consolidated revenues in each of the last three years. Our consolidated net earnings in 2003, 2002 and 2001 included approximately $0.5 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible and only revenues and earnings during the first 12 months following the quarter in which we complete the acquisition are attributed to such businesses.
Significant matters in our Statement of Earnings, pages 70 and 71 of exhibit 99(d), are explained below.
 
is sales of goods and services less the costs of goods and services sold, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. GE operating margin was 15.9% of sales in 2003, down from 19.1% in 2002 and 19.6% in 2001. The decrease in 2003 was attributable to lower operating margins at Energy and Advanced Materials. The decline in 2002 was attributable to Advanced Materials and Consumer & Industrial, and also reflected $0.6 billion of restructuring and other charges, partially offset by improvements in operating margins at Energy, NBC and Infrastructure. Restructuring and other charges in 2002 included $0.4 billion for rationalizing certain operations and facilities of GE's worldwide industrial businesses.
OPERATING MARGIN
 
Sales of product services were $22.9 billion in 2003, a 10% increase over 2002. Increases in product services in 2003 and 2002 were widespread, led by continued strong growth at Energy, Infrastructure and Healthcare. Operating margin from product services was approximately $5.3 billion, compared with $5.2 billion in 2002. The increase reflected improvements at Energy and Infrastructure.
 
(sales in relation to costs, both on a constant dollar basis) for GE was negative 1.3% in 2003 on declining volume at Energy and Advanced Materials. In 2002 total cost productivity was 0.7% on variable cost productivity improvements partially offset by lower base cost productivity, primarily at Energy and Infrastructure.
TOTAL COST PRODUCTIVITY
 
contributed modestly to pre-tax earnings in 2003, compared with $0.8 billion and $1.5 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Benefit costs relating to these plans increased in 2003 primarily because of a reduction in the pension discount rate for the year from 7.25% to 6.75% (which increased the pension obligation), amortization of prior years' investment losses, plan benefit changes resulting from union negotiations and increases in retiree medical and drug costs.
PRINCIPAL POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
 
Considering current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we assumed that long-term returns on our pension plan assets would be 8.5% in 2003 and 2002 and 9.5% in 2001. Reducing the assumed return by 100 basis points in 2002 increased annual pension costs by about $480 million pretax. Actual annual investment returns are extremely volatile. Because this short-term market volatility occurs in context of the long-term nature of pension plans, U.S. accounting principles provide that differences between assumed and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. See notes 5 and 6 for additional information about funding status, components of earnings effects and actuarial assumptions of the plans. See page 68 of exhibit 99(d) for discussion of pension assumptions.
 
We believe our postretirement benefit costs will increase in 2004 for a number of reasons, including a further reduction in the pension discount rate from 6.75% to 6.0%, additional amortization of investment losses, plan benefit changes as a result of union negotiations and continued increases in retiree healthcare costs. We continue to expect that our plan assets will earn 8.5%, on average, over the long term.
 
We will not make any contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2004. To the best of our ability to forecast the next five years, we do not anticipate making contributions to that Plan so long as expected investment returns are achieved. The present funding status provides assurance of benefits for our participants, but future effects on operating results and funding depend on economic conditions and investment performance.
 
amounted to $0.9 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.8 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Interest costs in 2003 were higher as a result of our issuing $5.0 billion of long-term bonds in the first quarter of the year and higher average short-term borrowings, partially offset by lower average interest rates. The decrease in 2002 was primarily the result of reduced interest on lower tax liabilities following the 2002 settlements described on page 47 of exhibit 99(d).
GE INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHARGES
 
was $9.9 billion in 2003 and 2002, compared with $10.6 billion in 2001. Changes over the three-year period reflected the effects of lower interest rates, partially offset by the effects of higher average borrowings of $279.7 billion, $250.1 billion and $212.2 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, used to finance asset growth and acquisitions. The average composite effective interest rate was 3.5% in 2003, compared with 4.1% in 2002 and 5.1% in 2001. In 2003, average assets of $521.6 billion were 15% higher than in 2002, which in turn were 18% higher than in 2001. See page 59 of exhibit 99(d) for a discussion of interest rate risk management.
GECS INTEREST EXPENSE ON BORROWINGS
 
 
on consolidated earnings before accounting changes were 21.7%, compared with 19.9% in 2002 and 28.3% in 2001. Our consolidated income tax rate increased in 2003 by 1.8 percentage points over 2002 because our savings from 2003 business dispositions were less than our 2002 savings from settlements with the IRS. Income tax rates were lower than they otherwise would have been in both 2003 and 2002 because of the increasing share of earnings from lower taxed international operations. A more detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax provisions, is provided in note 7. The nature of business activities and associated income taxes differ for GE and for GECS, and a separate analysis of each is presented in the paragraphs that follow.
INCOME TAXES
 
Because GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, GE's pre-tax earnings excluding GECS were $10.7 billion, $14.3 billion and $12.7 billion. On this basis, GE's effective tax rate was 26.7% in 2003 and 2002, and 32.9% in 2001. The 2003 GE rate was reduced by approximately 1.7 percentage points because certain reductions in pre-tax earningsspecifically, lower earnings at Energy and from our principal pension plansaffected taxes at higher than our average rate. The 2003 GE rate was also reduced by approximately 1.0 percentage point (after adjusting for the effect of the lower pre-tax income at Energy and our principal pension plans) from a tax benefit on the disposition of shares of GE Superabrasives U.S., Inc., included in the line, "All othernet" in note 7. In 2002, GE entered into settlements with the IRS concerning certain export tax benefits. The effect of the settlements, the tax portion of which is included on the line "Tax on international activities including exports" in note 7, was a reduction of the GE tax rate of approximately 2.7 percentage points. Also in 2002, GE entered into a tax-advantaged transaction to exchange certain assets for the cable network Bravo. The related reduction of approximately 1.0 percentage point in the GE effective tax rate is reflected in the line, "All othernet" in note 7.
 
GECS effective tax rate was 15.8% in 2003, negative 1.7% in 2002 and 19.8% in 2001. The increase from 2002 to 2003 reflected the absence of a current year counterpart to the 2002 pre-tax loss at ERC and the IRS settlements discussed below, as well as lower pre-tax losses at GE Equity, partially offset by an approximately three percentage point decrease due to the 2003 pre-tax loss and tax benefit on the disposition of shares of ERC Life Reinsurance Corporation (ERC Life), included in the line "All othernet" in note 7.
 
GECS 2002 effective tax rate reflected pre-tax losses at ERC and GE Equity, the effects of lower taxed earnings from international operations and favorable tax settlements with the IRS. Pre-tax losses of $2.9 billion at ERC and $0.6 billion at GE Equity reduced the effective tax rate of GECS by approximately 17 percentage points.
 
During 2002, as a result of revised IRS regulations, GECS reached a settlement with the IRS allowing the deduction of previously realized losses associated with the prior disposition of Kidder Peabody. Also during 2002, we reached a settlement with the IRS regarding the treatment of certain reserves for obligations to policyholders on life insurance contracts in Insurance. The benefits of these settlements, which reduced the GECS tax rate approximately four percentage points (excluding the ERC and GE Equity losses), are included in the line "All othernet" in note 7.
SUMMARY OF OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
 
The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 76-113 of exhibit 99(d) are an integral part of this summary.
Segment Operations
 
are shown on page 48 of exhibit 99(d). As discussed in our 2003 Annual Report, effective January 1, 2004, and January 1, 2003, we made changes to the way we report our segments. Information in this report reflects those changes. For additional information, including a description of the products and services included in each segment, see pages 112 and 113 of exhibit 99(d).
REVENUES AND SEGMENT PROFIT FOR OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
Segment profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by the Chief Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period. In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar expenses; certain gains/losses from dispositions; and litigation settlements or other charges, responsibility for which precedes the current management team.
 
Segment profit always excludes goodwill amortization, the effects of principal pension plans and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or includes interest and other financial charges and segment income taxes according to how a particular segment management is measuredexcluded in determining operating profit for Advanced Materials, Consumer & Industrial, Energy, Healthcare, Infrastructure, NBC and Transportation; included in determining segment profit which we refer to as "segment net earnings" for Commercial Finance, Consumer Finance, Equipment & Other Services and Insurance.
 
revenues in 2003 were up 2% at $7.1 billion as the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and the OSi acquisition ($0.1 billion) offset lower volume ($0.2 billion). Operating profit of $0.6 billion was 38% lower than in 2002 reflecting higher material costs ($0.2 billion), primarily benzene, and lower productivity ($0.2 billion), partially offset by effects of dispositions and the OSi acquisition. Advanced Materials revenues of $7.0 billion in 2002 were down 2% from 2001 levels, as weakness in pricing ($0.6 billion) offset increased volume ($0.4 billion). Operating profit declined 30% in 2002 to $1.0 billion as productivity and higher volume were not sufficient to offset the effects of lower prices ($0.6 billion).
ADVANCED MATERIALS
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations on page 54 of exhibit 99(d) for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
COMMERCIAL FINANCE
 
 
 
 
Commercial Finance revenues and net earnings increased 6% and 18%, respectively, compared with 2002. The increase in revenues resulted primarily from acquisitions across substantially all businesses ($1.1 billion), higher investment gains at Real Estate ($0.1 billion) and origination growth, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.1 billion). The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from origination growth, acquisitions across substantially all businesses ($0.2 billion), higher investment gains at Real Estate as a result of the sale of properties and our investments in Regency Centers and Prologis ($0.1 billion), lower credit losses ($0.1 billion) resulting from continued improvement in overall portfolio credit quality as reflected by lower delinquencies and nonearning receivables, and growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations ($0.1 billion).
 
The most significant acquisitions affecting Commercial Finance 2003 results were the commercial inventory financing business of Deutsche Financial Services and the structured finance business of ABB, both of which were acquired during the fourth quarter of 2002. These two acquisitions contributed $0.5 billion and $0.1 billion to 2003 revenues and net earnings, respectively.
The 2002 increase in revenues of 11% principally reflected acquisitions and increased originations across substantially all businesses, partially offset by reduced market interest rates and lower securitization activity. The 2002 net earnings increase of 15% primarily reflected acquisitions ($0.4 billion) and origination growth, productivity across all businesses and growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations, partially offset by increased credit losses and lower securitization activity.
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 of exhibit 99(d) are items not allocated to this segment.
 
CONSUMER FINANCE
 
 
 
Consumer Finance revenues increased 25% in 2003, a result of acquisitions ($1.1 billion), the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion), origination growth as a result of continued global expansion and the premium on the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables ($0.1 billion). Net earnings increased 20% in 2003 as a result of origination growth, growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations, the premium on the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables ($0.1 billion) and acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.2 billion) and lower earnings in Japan, principally as a result of increased personal bankruptcies.
 
The most significant acquisitions affecting Consumer Finance 2003 results were First National Bank, which provides mortgage and sales finance products in the United Kingdom, and the retail sales finance unit of Conseco Finance Corp., both of which were acquired during the second quarter of 2003. These businesses contributed $0.7 billion and $0.1 billion to 2003 revenues and net earnings, respectively.
 
Revenues increased in 2002 primarily as a result of acquisitions ($0.8 billion) and increased international originations, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.4 billion). Net earnings increased 12% in 2002, as a result of origination growth, acquisitions ($0.1 billion), growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations and productivity benefits, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.1 billion).
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 of exhibit 99(d) are items not allocated to this segment.
 
revenues decreased slightly to $12.8 billion in 2003 as lower prices ($0.3 billion) primarily of home appliances and consumer lighting products were partially offset by the effect of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose slightly as productivity ($0.3 billion), primarily achieved by combining the lighting and appliance businesses, the mix of higher-margin appliances and an investment gain were partially offset by lower prices ($0.3 billion).
CONSUMER & INDUSTRIAL
 
In 2002, Consumer & Industrial revenues fell slightly to $12.9 billion as higher volume ($0.1 billion) was more than offset by the effects of lower prices ($0.3 billion). Operating profit decreased 37% in 2002 to $0.6 billion, with adverse results in the lighting products business, particularly lower prices, higher base costs and higher charges resulting from customer credit issues. Lower prices reduced 2002 operating profit by $0.3 billion.
 
revenues fell 19% to $19.1 billion as growth in the energy services and wind businesses was more than offset by lower volume ($4.8 billion) reflecting the continued effects of the decline in sales of large gas turbines (208 in 2003 compared with 362 in 2002) and industrial aero-derivative products, partially offset by the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). Operating profit dropped 35% to $4.1 billion in 2003, principally reflecting the combined effects of lower volume ($1.3 billion), lower productivity ($0.8 billion) and lower prices ($0.5 billion). Customer contract termination fees, net of associated costs, were $0.6 billion in 2003 and $0.9 billion in 2002, reflecting the decline in demand for new power generation equipment that began in 2002, with such fees primarily occurring in that year and the first half of 2003. Energy revenues increased 12% to $23.6 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($2.2 billion) and price ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose 29% to $6.3 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($0.5 billion), and productivity ($0.6 billion) which included the $0.9 billion positive effect of customer contract termination fees, net of associated costs. Results in 2002 also included restructuring and other charges of $0.2 billion as Energy adjusted its cost structure.
ENERGY
 
Energy orders were $15.4 billion in 2003, compared with $13.3 billion in 2002, reflecting strong demand for wind turbines, oil and gas turbomachinery, and services. The $12.5 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $7.9 billion (of which 70% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $4.6 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $16.5 billion.
EQUIPMENT & OTHER SERVICES
 
 
Equipment & Other Services operating performance over the past three years was primarily the result of the effects of the U.S. recession and higher capacity, in combination with declining growth in many industries served by the businesses in the Equipment & Other Services segment, which resulted in fierce competitive price pressures.
 
Equipment & Other Services revenues and net earnings in 2003, decreased 20% and 8%, respectively, as compared with 2002. More specifically, revenues decreased as a result of the following:
 
 
 
 
These decreases were partially offset by the overall improvement in equity markets and lower level of investment losses in 2003 at GE Equity ($0.2 billion) and the consolidation of certain entities in our financial statements ($0.7 billion) as a result of our July 1, 2003, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, , (see note 29). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from lower asset utilization and price ($0.1 billion) and the absence of a 2002 tax settlement related to Kidder Peabody ($0.2 billion), offset by improved performance in 2003 at GE Equity ($0.2 billion) and the tax benefit related to the sale of ERC Life ($0.1 billion).
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Equipment & Other Services revenues and net earnings in 2002, decreased 28% and 75%, respectively, as compared with 2001. The decrease in revenues resulted primarily from the following:
 
 
 
 
 
These decreases were partially offset by the absence of 2001 asset impairments and product line exits ($0.4 billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from the 2001 sale of Americom ($0.9 billion); reduced net earnings at IT Solutions and AFS ($0.1 billion); increased losses on investments and lower gains at GE Equity ($0.1 billion); and lower asset utilization and price ($0.1 billion). These decreases were partially offset by the absence of 2001 asset impairments and product line exits ($0.7 billion) and a favorable tax settlement with the IRS allowing the deduction of previously realized losses associated with the prior disposition of Kidder Peabody ($0.2 billion).
 
Certain amounts are not included in other financial services operating segments or businesses because they are excluded from the measurement of their operating performance for internal purposes. In 2001, after-tax charges of $0.7 billion primarily related to asset impairments and product line exits, included: other-than-temporary impairments of investments totaling $0.3 billion, the largest of which were primarily held by GE Equity and Insurance; charges of $0.1 billion related to loss events and the exit of certain insurance and financing product lines at Insurance, primarily nonstandard automobile and higher limit industrial property insurance coverages; charges of $0.1 billion related to the exit of certain financing product lines at Consumer Finance; and costs related to restructuring totaling $0.1 billion, consisting of involuntary termination benefits, facilities exit costs, and asset impairments.
 
revenues increased 14% to $10.2 billion in 2003 reflecting $0.5 billion of sales from recently acquired businesses, primarily Instrumentarium, and other volume growth ($0.7 billion) that more than offset lower prices ($0.4 billion). Operating profit of $1.7 billion rose 10% as productivity ($0.3 billion) and higher volume ($0.2 billion) more than offset the $0.4 billion effects of lower prices. Healthcare revenues increased 6% to $9.0 billion in 2002, on higher equipment and product services volume, partially offset by lower prices ($0.4 billion) and weak market conditions in Latin America and Japan. Operating profit of $1.5 billion was relatively flat in 2002 as productivity ($0.2 billion) and increased volume ($0.2 billion) were partially offset by a $0.4 billion effect of lower pricing.
HEALTHCARE
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations on page 54 of exhibit 99(d) for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
Orders received by Healthcare in 2003 were $10.5 billion, compared with $9.4 billion in 2002. The $4.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $2.8 billion (of which 95% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $1.8 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $4.0 billion.
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to acquire U.K.-based Amersham plc, a world leader in medical diagnostics and life sciences.
reported a 62% increase in revenues, to $3.1 billion in 2003, on higher volume ($1.0 billion) primarily from acquisitions. Recently acquired businesses, the largest of which were Betz-Dearborn and Osmonics, contributed $0.5 billion of sales in 2003. Operating profit rose 56% to $0.5 billion on higher volume ($0.2 billion) primarily from acquisitions. Infrastructure revenues more than tripled to $1.9 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($1.5 billion), reflecting the contributions of acquisitions. Operating profit at Infrastructure was $0.3 billion in 2002 compared with less than $0.1 billion in 2001, reflecting higher volume ($0.1 billion) and productivity ($0.2 billion).
INFRASTRUCTURE
 
INSURANCE
 
Insurance revenues increased $2.9 billion (12%) in 2003 on increased premium revenues ($2.2 billion), a gain of $0.6 billion on sale of GE Edison Life Insurance Company (Edison Life), higher investment income ($0.4 billion) and the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). The premium revenue increase reflected continued favorable pricing at ERC ($0.5 billion), net volume growth in certain ERC and other insurance businesses ($0.8 billion), absence of prior year loss adjustments ($0.4 billion), adjustment of current year premium accruals to actual ($0.3 billion) and lower levels of ceded premiums resulting from a decline in prior year ERC loss events ($0.1 billion). Partial revenue offsets resulted from absence of revenues following the sale of Edison Life ($0.7 billion) and a $0.2 billion loss on the disposition of Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC) at the end of 2003. Revenues decreased 2% in 2002, principally the result of ongoing planned run-off of acquired policies at Toho and lower realized investment gains.
 
Net earnings increased $2.2 billion in 2003, primarily from the substantial improvement in current operating results at ERC ($2.3 billion) reflecting improved underwriting, lower adverse development (discussed below) and generally favorable industry conditions during the year. Net earnings also benefited from the gain on the sale of Edison Life ($0.3 billion). These increases were partially offset by the absence of a current year counterpart to the favorable tax settlement with the IRS in 2002 ($0.2 billion) and the loss on the sale of FGIC ($0.1 billion after tax).
 
Net earnings decreased $2.0 billion in 2002, primarily the result of adverse development at ERC. Also in 2002, investment gains decreased, an effect partially offset by core premium growth including higher premium pricing at ERC, and benefit from the favorable tax settlement with the IRS.
 
As described on page 67 of exhibit 99(d) under the caption "Insurance liabilities and reserves," insurance loss provisions are adjusted up or down based on the best available estimates. Reported claims activity at ERC related to prior year loss events, particularly for liability-related exposures underwritten in 1997 through 2001, has performed much worse than we anticipated.
 
 
 
Throughout 2003, ERC has remained disciplined in rejecting risks that either fail to meet the established standards of price or terms and conditions, or that involve risks for which sufficient historical data do not exist to permit us to make a satisfactory evaluation. For risks that pass our criteria, we have sought to retain and even judiciously expand our business. On the other hand, we have curtailed or exited business in particular property and casualty business channels when expected returns do not appear to justify the risks.
 
ERC's improved operating performance is illustrated by its "combined ratio"the sum of claims-related losses incurred plus related underwriting expenses in relation to earned premiums. A combined ratio of less than 100% reflects an underwriting profit, that is, profit before investment income, another significant revenue source for most insurance entities. ERC's 2003 combined ratio was 106%, but, in an early indication of the effectiveness of our revised underwriting standards, the combined ratio excluding prior-year loss events was 93%.
 
Our mortgage insurance business had favorable development throughout the three years ended December 31, 2003, primarily reflecting continued strength in certain real estate markets and the success of our loss containment initiatives in that business.
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 of exhibit 99(d) are items not allocated to this segment. See page 44 of exhibit 99(d) for a discussion of our planned Genworth offering.
revenues decreased 4% to $6.9 billion in 2003 following a 24% increase to $7.1 billion in 2002. Operating profit rose 21% to $2.0 billion in 2003, following an 18% increase in the prior year. Results were affected by several events during the three-year period. Improved pricing and higher syndication and network sales increased revenues by $0.2 billion in 2002 and higher prices and network sales increased revenues $0.5 billion in 2003, but were partially offset in 2003 by advertising reductions because of coverage of the Iraq war ($0.1 billion). The Salt Lake City Olympic Games and final year of NBA coverage contributed $0.7 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, to 2002 revenues, but the NBA contract resulted in a loss that exceeded profit from the Olympics. We acquired Telemundo and Bravo in 2002; together they added $0.7 billion and $0.3 billion of advertising revenues in 2003 and 2002, respectively, and $0.1 billion operating profit in 2003. The 2002 exchange of certain assets for Bravo resulted in $0.6 billion of gain, $0.2 billion of which was attributed to NBC's segment results, an amount equal to $0.2 billion of other charges for impairments in 2002. The remainder was included in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations as discussed on page 54 of exhibit 99(d).
NBC
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to merge NBC with Vivendi Universal Entertainment to create one of the world's premier media companies, NBC Universal.
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
Transportation revenues decreased slightly in 2003 on lower volume ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose 6% in 2003 to $2.7 billion as productivity ($0.2 billion) more than offset the effects of lower volume. Revenues in 2002 decreased slightly on lower prices ($0.1 billion) and lower volume ($0.1 billion). Operating profit also fell slightly as productivity partially offset the effects of lower prices.
 
Aircraft Engines revenues decreased 4% to $11.0 billion in 2003 reflecting lower volume ($0.5 billion), primarily related to commercial aircraft and industrial aero-derivative engines, partially offset by higher military spare parts volume. Despite the decrease in revenues, operating profit rose 5% to $2.2 billion reflecting the effects of productivity ($0.2 billion) largely from workforce efficiency, and lower research and development spending upon completion of certain development programs, more than offsetting the effect of decreased volume ($0.1 billion). Aircraft Engines reported a 1% decrease in revenues in 2002 as commercial engine pricing pressures and reduced commercial product services revenues, combined with lower industrial units, were substantially offset by increased military sales. Operating profit in 2002 was 3% lower than in 2001, primarily as a result of lower pricing ($0.1 billion), including pricing for commercial engines, lower product services volume from reduced customer flight hours, and higher labor costs, partially offset by lower material costs and productivity.
 
In 2003, Aircraft Engines revenues from sales to the U.S. government were $2.4 billion, compared with $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Aircraft Engines received orders of $10.4 billion in 2003, compared with $11.6 billion in 2002, as military orders decreased from $4.3 billion to $2.2 billion and commercial engines increased $0.6 billion to $2.3 billion. The $10.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $8.0 billion (of which 38% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $2.6 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $11.5 billion.
 
Rail revenues of $2.5 billion increased 10% compared with 2002 on higher volume ($0.2 billion), primarily from locomotive sales and growth in the global signaling business. Operating profit rose 11% to $0.5 billion in 2003 on the higher volume, partially offset by reduced pricing. In 2002, Rail revenues of $2.3 billion were 2% lower and operating profit of $0.4 billion was about the same as in 2001, as product services revenues, strong variable cost productivity and lower material costs offset the effects of lower volume and pricing pressures.
Rail received orders of $2.9 billion in 2003, compared with $2.8 billion in 2002. The $2.4 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $1.3 billion (of which 69% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $1.1 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $2.1 billion.
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations below for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
GE CORPORATE ITEMS AND ELIMINATIONS
 
 
GE Corporate Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between operating segments; cost reductions from our principal pension plans; liquidating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; certain non-allocated amounts described below; a variety of sundry items; and, before 2002, goodwill amortization. Corporate overhead is allocated to GE operating segments based on a ratio of segment net cost of operations, excluding direct materials, to total company cost of operations. This caption also includes internal allocated costs for segment funds on deposit.
 
Not allocatedCertain amounts are not included in GE operating segments because they are excluded from the measurement of their operating performance for internal purposes. In 2003 and 2002, these comprised charges of $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively, for settlement of litigation, restructuring and other charges at Healthcare; in 2002, a portion of NBC's gain from the Bravo exchange; in 2002, a total of $0.1 billion for restructuring and other charges at Transportation and Advanced Materials; and in 2001, a total of $0.5 billion of goodwill amortization.
 
Other includes a $0.5 billion gain from the sale of 90% of Global eXchange Services in 2002.
 
International Operations
 
Our international activities span all global regions and primarily encompass manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our plants domiciled in other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also often have new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things, higher receivables delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellation of sales and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local currency financing costs and a slowdown in established financial services activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial services activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices and lower U.S. debt financing costs.
 
Estimated results of international activities include the results of our operations located outside the United States plus all U.S. exports. We classify certain GECS operations that cannot meaningfully be associated with specific geographic areas as "Other international" for this purpose.
 
International revenues rose 14% to $60.8 billion in 2003 compared with $53.4 billion and $51.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. International revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 45% in 2003, compared with 40% and 41% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The effects of exchange rates on reported results were to increase revenues by $3.8 billion and $0.4 billion in 2003 and 2002, respectively, and increase earnings by $0.1 billion in 2003 and decrease earnings by $0.1 billion in 2002.
 
CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL REVENUES
 
 
GE international revenues were $33.0 billion, $29.0 billion and $28.3 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $4.0 billion increase in GE international revenues related to increased operations outside the U.S., partially offset by lower U.S. exports.
GE revenues in Europe rose 25%, led by Energy, Healthcare and Infrastructure, reflecting the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar and volume growth. GE revenues in the Pacific Basin increased 14% as most businesses reported improved results. Energy and Infrastructure were the primary contributors to a 16% increase in revenues in the Americas and Energy more than accounted for the 10% decrease in U.S. exports. The increase in 2002 related to both an increase in operations outside the U.S. and higher U.S. exports. Revenue increases in Europe were led by Healthcare in 2002. Transportation and Energy were the primary contributors to a 9% decrease in revenues in the Americas. Increases in U.S. export sales in 2002 were primarily in Advanced Materials and Energy, partially offset by lower exports by Healthcare and Transportation.
 
GECS international revenues were $27.8 billion, $24.4 billion and $23.6 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $3.4 billion increase related to a 21% increase in Europe in 2003 as a result of the growth in premiums and price increases at Insurance ($2.1 billion), acquisitions ($1.0 billion) and the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion), primarily at Consumer Finance and Commercial Finance, partially offset by geographic market exits at certain Equipment & Other Services businesses ($1.3 billion).
 
International operating profit was $8.8 billion in 2003, an increase of 35% over 2002, which was 7% higher than in 2001. Operating profit in 2003 rose 89% to $4.0 billion in Europe, primarily as a result of lower adverse development at Insurance ($1.1 billion). Operating profit also rose 30% to $1.5 billion in the Americas and was relatively unchanged in the Pacific Basin ($2.4 billion) and "Other international" ($0.9 billion).
 
Total assets of international operations were $258.9 billion in 2003 (40% of consolidated assets), an increase of $29.9 billion, or 13%, over 2002. GECS international assets grew 12% from $207.5 billion at the end of 2002 to $231.9 billion at the end of 2003. GECS assets increased 31% in Europe as a result of acquisitions ($14.8 billion), primarily at Consumer Finance and Commercial Finance, the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($11.7 billion) and growth at Consumer Finance and Insurance. GECS assets increased 13% in the Americas as a result of growth at Commercial Finance and Insurance.
 
Financial results of our international activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal currencies are the British pound sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar.
 
Environmental Matters
 
Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws.
 
We have developed environmental, health and safety management systems that are implemented at all of our facilities and track our performance. Since 1996, we have reduced employee injuries by over 70% as well as reducing air and wastewater exceedances and emissions at our facilities. We also actively participate in various programs that recognize facilities with health and safety programs that exceed legal requirements, including the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) as well as a similar government program in Mexico. Participation in these programs requires government audits to verify our comprehensive health and safety management systems. We are a leading participant in the U.S. VPP program with 82 sites, and have an additional 25 sites participating in the Mexico program. We have a Global Star program designed to recognize sites with world-class health and safety programs in those countries without government VPP programs. The 44 Global Star sites have passed a rigorous evaluation conducted by GE internal health and safety experts. We also have 79 sites accredited by outside auditors under the ISO 14000 Standard for Environmental Management Systems.
Over the last two years we spent a total of about $0.1 billion for projects related to the environment. These amounts exclude expenditures for remediation actions, which are principally expensed and are discussed below. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devicessuch as waste-water treatment plants, groundwater monitoring devices, air strippers or separators, and incineratorsat new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent with policies stressing environmental responsibility, we expect our capital expenditures other than for remediation projects to total about $0.1 billion over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.
 
We also are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to $0.1 billion in each of the last two years. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in the range of $0.1 billion to $0.2 billion over the next two years.
 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ruled in February 2002 that approximately 150,000 pounds of polychlo-rinated biphenyls (PCBs) must be dredged from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State. We have submitted what is known as a "Good Faith Offer" under the Superfund law and began negotiations with the EPA to undertake the design and engineering of the remedy. Our Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, included liabilities for the estimated costs of this remediation.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 10
 
GE CURRENT RECEIVABLES
 
 
Receivables balances at December 31, 2003 and 2002, before allowance for losses, included $6,746 million and $6,269 million, respectively, from sales of goods and services to customers, and $226 million and $304 million, respectively, from transactions with associated companies.
 
Current receivables of $444 million at year-end 2003 and $344 million at year-end 2002 arose from sales, principally of aircraft engine goods and services, on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government, which is our largest single customer. About 4% of our sales of goods and services were to the U.S. government in 2003, 2002 and 2001.
 
NOTE 12
 
GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES (INVESTMENTS IN TIME SALES, LOANS AND FINANCING LEASES)
 
 
GECS financing receivables include both time sales and loans and financing leases. Time sales and loans represents transactions in a variety of forms, including time sales, revolving charge and credit, mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans secured by business assets. The portfolio includes time sales and loans carried at the principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and time sales and loans carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges.
 
Investment in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data processing equipment and medical equipment, as well as other manufacturing, power generation, commercial real estate, and commercial equipment and facilities.
As the sole owner of assets under direct financing leases and as the equity participant in leveraged leases, GECS is taxed on total lease payments received and is entitled to tax deductions based on the cost of leased assets and tax deductions for interest paid to third-party participants. GECS is generally entitled to any residual value of leased assets.
 
Investment in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and interest on notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals receivable. The GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share of other participants who also have security interests in the leased equipment.
 
NET INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES
 
 
CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
 
We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities.
 
"Impaired" loans are defined by generally accepted accounting principles as large balance loans for which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. An analysis of impaired loans follows.
 
 
NOTE 13
GECS ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES
 
 
 
SELECTED FINANCING RECEIVABLES RATIOS
 
NOTE 16
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
 
GE intangible assets were net of accumulated amortization of $5,759 million in 2003 and $5,203 million in 2002. GECS intangible assets were net of accumulated amortization of $11,515 million in 2003 and $10,603 million in 2002.
 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION
 
 
 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets were $758 million and $585 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and principally comprise U.S. Federal Communication Commission licenses and cable affiliation agreements.
 
Consolidated amortization expense related to intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for 2003 and 2002 was $1,407 million and $1,999 million, respectively. The estimated percentage of the December 31, 2003, net PVFP balance to be amortized over each of the next five years follows.
 
 
Change in PVFP balances follow.
 
 
 
Recoverability of PVFP is evaluated periodically by comparing the current estimate of expected future gross profits to the unamortized asset balance. If such comparison indicates that the expected gross profits will not be sufficient to recover PVFP, the difference is charged to expense. No such expense was recorded in 2003 or 2002.
 
Amortization expense for PVFP in future periods will be affected by acquisitions, realized capital gains/losses or other factors affecting the ultimate amount of gross profits realized from certain lines of business. Similarly, future amortization expense for other intangibles will depend on acquisition activity and other business transactions.
 
The amount of goodwill amortization included in net earnings (net of income taxes) in 2001 was $499 million and $552 million for GE and GECS, respectively.
 
The effects on earnings and earnings per share of excluding such goodwill amortization from 2001 follow.
 
 
Changes in goodwill balances, net of accumulated amortization, follow.
 
 
NOTE 27
 
OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
REVENUES
 
 
Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. Sales from one company component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices.
 
Revenues originating from operations based in the United States were $84,795 million, $90,954 million and $85,999 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Revenues originating from operations based outside the United States were $49,392 million, $41,256 million and $40,417 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment associated with operations based in the United States were $20,790 million, $19,778 million and $18,557 million at year-end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Property, plant and equipment associated with operations based outside the United States were $32,592 million, $29,295 million and $25,386 million at year-end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Basis for presentation
 
Our operating businesses are organized based on the nature of products and services provided. Segment accounting policies are the same as described in note 1.
 
A description of our operating segments can be found on pages 112-113 of exhibit 99(d) and details of segment profit by operating segment can be found on page 48 of exhibit 99(d).
OUR BUSINESSES
 
A description of operating segments for General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 2003, and the basis for presentation in this report, follows.
 
Advanced Materials
 
High-performance engineered plastics used in a variety of applications such as automotive parts, computer enclosures, telecommunication equipment and construction materials. Products also include structured products, silicones and high-purity quartzware. Products and services are sold worldwide to a diverse customer base consisting mainly of manufacturers.
 
Commercial Finance
 
Loans, leases, and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial and energy-related facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles; aircraft; and equipment used in many industries including the construction, manufacturing, telecommunications, and healthcare industries.
 
Consumer Finance
 
Card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases, and residential mortgages for customers on a global basis.
 
Consumer & Industrial
 
Major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system products. Distributed to both retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps, lighting fixtures and wiring devices. Electrical distribution and control equipment includes power delivery and control products such as transformers, meters, relays, capacitors and arresters. Also includes GE Supply, a network of electrical supply houses. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private-label brands.
 
Energy
 
Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and contractual services are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions including wind turbines and hydro turbines and generators. Advanced turbomachinery products and related services for the oil and gas market, including total pipeline integrity solutions. Substation automation and network solutions sold to power transmission and distribution customers. Also includes portable and rental power plants, nuclear reactors, fuel and nuclear support services.
 
Equipment & Other Services
 
Rentals, leases, sales, asset management services and loans for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including tractors, trailers, railroad rolling stock, modular space units, inter-modal shipping containers, computer networks, marine containers and autos. Also included in the segment are activities and businesses that are not measured within one of the other financial services segmentsfor example corporate expenses, liquidating businesses and other non-segment aligned operations, including GE Equity, the consolidation of certain entities in our financial statements as a result of our July 1, 2003, adoption of FIN 46; and the U.S. Auto and Home business, which was sold in the third quarter of 2003.
 
Healthcare
 
Medical imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear imaging and ultrasound, as well as diagnostic cardiology and patient monitoring devices; related services, including equipment monitoring and repair, computerized data management and customer productivity services. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals and medical facilities.
 
Infrastructure
 
Chemical water treatment program services and equipment; measurement and sensing equipment (products and subsystems for sensing temperatures, humidity and pressure); security equipment and systems (including card access systems, video and sensor monitoring equipment, integrated facility monitoring systems and explosive detection systems); a broad range of automation hardware and software. Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities; original equipment manufacturers; electrical distributors; retail outlets; railways; and transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in global markets.
Insurance
 
U.S. and international multiple-line property and casualty reinsurance, certain directly written specialty insurance and life reinsurance, consumer investment, insurance and retirement services, private mortgage insurance and, before its sale in the fourth quarter of 2003, financial guaranty insurance, principally on municipal bonds and asset-backed securities.
 
NBC
 
Principal businesses are the furnishing of U.S. network television services to more than 230 affiliated stations, production of television programs, operation of 29 VHF and UHF television broadcasting stations, operation of four cable/satellite networks around the world, and investment and programming activities in the Internet, multimedia and cable television.
 
Transportation
 
Jet engines and replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft (short/medium, intermediate and long-range); for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Also includes aircraft engine derivatives used as marine propulsion and industrial power sources; the latter is also reported in Energy. Rail systems products and maintenance services including diesel and electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles, and railway signaling communications systems.

Exhibit 99(c)
 
 
Operating Segments
 
Revenues and segment profit of our segments for the four quarters of 2003 and 2002 are summarized and discussed below. All quarters presented have been reclassified to conform to the changes in our organization effective January 1, 2004.
 
Consolidated
 
 
Commercial Finance
 
 
Consumer Finance
 
 
Insurance
 
 
Transportation
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
Commercial Finance
 
 
Consumer Finance
 
 
Insurance
 
 
Transportation
 
 

Exhibit 99(d)
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of the 2003 Form 10-K, and audited consolidated financial statements of GE for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, both conformed to reflect the January 1, 2004, organizational changes. Also included is the independent auditors' report dated February 6, 2004, except as to page 48 and notes 10, 12, 13, 16 and 27, which are as of March 19, 2004.
 
ABOUT THESE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Keeping our investors well informed about GE is vitally important to us. In 2001, we committed to increasing our transparency, which led to the presentation of significantly more financial information and analysis in our annual report. We continue to be guided by that commitment. We believe the 2003 financial statements will provide you with even more insight about our company.
 
The pages that follow have been organized to walk you through our financial condition and results from top to bottom.
 
FINANCIAL TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
We begin with . Here our Chief Executive and Financial Officers discuss our unyielding commitment to rigorous oversight, controllership and visibility to investors.
Management's Discussion of Financial Responsibility
 
Then we present our , submitted by KPMG LLP. Here our auditors express their independent opinion on our consolidated financial statements.
Independent Auditors' Report
 
The next section is . We begin the section with an overview of our earnings from 2001 to 2003, which provides perspective on how the global economic environment has affected our businesses over the last three years. We then discuss various key operating results for GE industrial (GE) and financial services (GECS). Because of the fundamental differences in their businesses, reviewing certain information separately for GE and GECS offers a more meaningful analysis. This year's discussion of our segment results includes expanded quantitative and qualitative disclosure about the factors affecting segment revenues and profits, and the effects of recent acquisitions and significant transactions. Next is an overview of our operations from an international perspective.
Management's Discussion and Analysis
Operations
 
We then move to a discussion of our . Here we provide an overview of the major factors that affected our consolidated financial position. This section has been significantly expanded and reorganized to provide better insight into the liquidity and cash flow activities of GE and GECS.
Financial Resources and Liquidity
 
provides five years of financial information for GE and GECS. This table includes commonly used metrics that facilitate comparison with other companies.
Selected Financial Data
 
Following that is our discussion of used by management in preparing our financial statements. We discuss what these estimates are, why they are important, how they are developed and what could cause them to change.
Critical Accounting Estimates
 
Finally, we present our , including consolidating data for GE and GECS, and related notes.
Audited Financial Statements
 
For your convenience, we provide a of key terms used in our financial statements. We also continue to present our financial information electronically at . This award-winning site is interactive and informative.
Glossary
www.ge.com/investor
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 
High quality financial reporting is an excellent measure of a company and its management. We demonstrate our commitment to high quality reporting by adopting appropriate accounting policies, devoting our full, unyielding commitment to ensuring that those policies are applied properly and consistently, and presenting our results in a manner that is complete and clear. We welcome suggestions from those who use our reports.
 
Rigorous Management Oversight
 
Members of our corporate leadership team review each of our businesses constantly, on matters that range from overall strategy and financial performance to staffing and compliance. Our business leaders constantly monitor real-time financial and operating systems, enabling us to identify potential opportunities and concerns at an early stage, and positioning us to develop and execute rapid responses. Our Board of Directors oversees management's business conduct, and our Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors, oversees our system of controls and procedures. We continually examine our governance practices in an effort to enhance investor trust and improve the board's overall effectiveness. Our Presiding Director, who conducts at least three meetings per year with non-employee directors, has helped us to set more focused and effective meeting agendas. We changed compensation policies for our executives, including modifying CEO compensation to award equity grants only if key performance metrics are met, thereby aligning leadership's interests with the long-term interests of GE investors.
 
Dedication to Controllership
 
We maintain a dynamic system of controls and proceduresincluding internal controls over financial reportingdesigned to ensure reliable financial record-keeping, transparent financial reporting and disclosure, protection of physical and intellectual property, and efficient, effective use of resources. We recruit, develop and retain a world-class financial team, including 520 internal auditors who conduct thousands of financial, compliance and process improvement audits each year, in every geographic area, at every GE business. The Audit Committee oversees the scope and results of these reviews. Our global integrity policiesthe "Spirit & Letter"require compliance with law and policy, and pertain to such vital issues as upholding financial integrity and avoiding conflicts of interest. These integrity policies are available in 27 languages, and we have provided them to every one of GE's more than 300,000 global employees, holding each of these individualsfrom our top management on downpersonally accountable for compliance. Our integrity policies serve to reinforce key employee responsibilities around the world, and we inquire extensively about compliance. Our strong compliance culture reinforces these efforts by requiring employees to raise any compliance concerns and by prohibiting retribution for doing so. We hold our consultants, agents and independent contractors to the same integrity standards.
 
Visibility to Investors
 
We are keenly aware of the importance of full and open presentation of our financial position and operating results. To facilitate this, we maintain a Disclosure Committee, which includes senior executives with exceptional knowledge of our businesses and the related needs of our investors. We ask this committee to evaluate the fairness of our financial and non-financial disclosures, and to report their findings to us and to the Audit Committee. We further ensure strong disclosure by holding more than 250 analyst and investor meetings every year, and by communicating any material information covered in those meetings to the public. In testament to the effectiveness of our stringent disclosure policies, investors surveyed annually by magazine have given us 19 awards in the last eight years, including Best Overall Investor Relations Program by a mega-cap company for six of those years. We are in regular contact with representatives of the major rating agencies, and our debt continues to receive their highest ratings. We welcome the strong oversight of our financial reporting activities by our independent audit firm, KPMG LLP, who are engaged by and report directly to the Audit Committee. Their report for 2003 appears on page 43.
Investor Relations
 
A Great Company
 
GE continues to earn the admiration of the business world. We were named "The World's Most Respected Company" for the sixth consecutive year in the annual CEO survey, ranking first for governance and integrity.
Financial Times
 
Great companies are built on the foundation of reliable financial information and compliance with the law. For GE, the financial disclosures in this report are a vital part of that foundation. We present this information proudly, with the expectation that those who use it will understand our company, recognize our commitment to performance with integrity, and share our confidence in GE's future.
 
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
 
Keith S. Sherin
Senior Vice President, Finance, and
Chief Financial Officer
 
February 6, 2004
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To Shareowners and Board of Directors of
General Electric Company
 
We have audited the accompanying statement of financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates ("GE") as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of GE management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements appearing on pages 70, 72, 74, 48 and 76-113 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
As discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, GE in 2003 changed its methods of accounting for variable interest entities and asset retirement obligations, in 2002 changed its methods of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets and for stock-based compensation, and in 2001 changed its methods of accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities and impairment of certain beneficial interests in securitized assets.
 
Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying consolidating information appearing on pages 71, 73 and 75 is presented for purposes of additional analysis of the consolidated financial statements rather than to present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the individual entities. The consolidating information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
 
KPMG LLP
Stamford, Connecticut
 
February 6, 2004, except as to page 48 and notes 10, 12, 13, 16 and 27, which are as of March 29, 2004.
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 
OPERATIONS
 
Our consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing and product services businesses of General Electric Company (GE) and the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services).
 
We present Management's Discussion of Operations in three parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2001 through 2003, Segment Operations and International Operations.
 
In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes refer to data derived from consolidated financial information but not required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to be presented in financial statements. Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanation and reconciliation provided on page 68.
 
. With 11 operating segments, we will achieve lower costs of operations in platforms that will accommodate our future growth. The new segments most affected by this change follow:
ON JANUARY 1, 2004, WE SIMPLIFIED OUR ORGANIZATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results in this financial section have been reclassified on the basis of that January 1, 2004, reorganization.
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to acquire U.K.-based Amersham plc, a world leader in medical diagnostics and life sciences. We also entered into an agreement to merge NBC with Vivendi Universal Entertainment to create one of the world's premier media companies, NBC Universal.
 
We announced in November 2003 our intent for an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company, Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), comprising most of our life and mortgage insurance businesses. We plan to sell approximately one-third of Genworth's equity in the IPO, and we expect (subject to market conditions) to reduce our ownership over the next three years as Genworth transitions to full independence. We commenced the IPO process in January 2004 and expect to complete the IPO in the first half of the year, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
 
. Per-share dividends of $0.77 were up 5% from 2002, following an 11% increase from the preceding year. We have rewarded our shareowners with 28 consecutive years of dividend growth. Our dividend growth for the past five years has significantly outpaced dividend growth of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index.
WE DECLARED $7.8 BILLION IN DIVIDENDS IN 2003
 
Except as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents the results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment Operations section on page 49 for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE and GECS.
 
 
Overview of Our Earnings from 2001 through 2003
 
The global economic environment must be considered when evaluating our 2001 to 2003 results. Important factors for us included slow global economic growth, a mild U.S. recession that did not cause significantly higher credit losses, lower global interest rates, distinct developments in three industries that are significant to us (power generation, property and casualty insurance and commercial aviation), and escalating raw material prices. As you will see in detail in the following pages, our diversification and risk management strategies reduced the earnings effects of many of the significant developments of the last three years.
 
If, for comparison, we adjust 2001 results for the required accounting change to stop goodwill amortization, our earnings would have increased modestly in percentage terms over this three-year period. This modest increase results from a combination of factors, both positive and negative.
 
First, consider two businesses whose results were noteworthy.
 
 
gas turbine units in 2002, reaching $0.09 per share growth in earningsup 29% from 2001. (Note that per-share results we present in this discussion are on a diluted basis.) The subsequent 2003 decline in shipments was reflected in the $0.14 per share drop in 2003 earnings. We foresaw the 2002 end of the "bubble" and took appropriate action to cushion the downturn, right-sizing the business and growing and investing in other lines of the power generation business such as product services and GE Wind. The result is an Energy business whose results are remarkable from any perspective save its own extraordinary recent history.
 
 
 
Most of our operations achieved operating results in line with expectations in the 2001 to 2003 economic environment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other factors that were important to our recent earnings performance included reduced earnings from our principal postretirement benefit plans (down $0.05 per share in 2003 following a decline of $0.04 per share in 2002) and unusual events in 2002 such as the gains on the sale of Global eXchange Services ($0.03 per share) and the Bravo exchange net of restructuring ($0.03 per share), as well as favorable tax settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in 2002 ($0.07 per share).
 
Acquisitions affected our operations and contributed $5.4 billion, $7.2 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, to consolidated revenues in each of the last three years. Our consolidated net earnings in 2003, 2002 and 2001 included approximately $0.5 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible and only revenues and earnings during the first 12 months following the quarter in which we complete the acquisition are attributed to such businesses.
 
Significant matters in our Statement of Earnings, pages 70 and 71, are explained below.
 
is sales of goods and services less the costs of goods and services sold, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. GE operating margin was 15.9% of sales in 2003, down from 19.1% in 2002 and 19.6% in 2001. The decrease in 2003 was attributable to lower operating margins at Energy and Advanced Materials. The decline in 2002 was attributable to Advanced Materials and Consumer & Industrial, and also reflected $0.6 billion of restructuring and other charges, partially offset by improvements in operating margins at Energy, NBC and Infrastructure. Restructuring and other charges in 2002 included $0.4 billion for rationalizing certain operations and facilities of GE's worldwide industrial businesses.
OPERATING MARGIN
 
Sales of product services were $22.9 billion in 2003, a 10% increase over 2002. Increases in product services in 2003 and 2002 were widespread, led by continued strong growth at Energy, Infrastructure and Healthcare. Operating margin from product services was approximately $5.3 billion, compared with $5.2 billion in 2002. The increase reflected improvements at Energy and Infrastructure.
 
(sales in relation to costs, both on a constant dollar basis) for GE was negative 1.3% in 2003 on declining volume at Energy and Advanced Materials. In 2002 total cost productivity was 0.7% on variable cost productivity improvements partially offset by lower base cost productivity, primarily at Energy and Infrastructure.
TOTAL COST PRODUCTIVITY
 
contributed modestly to pre-tax earnings in 2003, compared with $0.8 billion and $1.5 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Benefit costs relating to these plans increased in 2003 primarily because of a reduction in the pension discount rate for the year from 7.25% to 6.75% (which increased the pension obligation), amortization of prior years' investment losses, plan benefit changes resulting from union negotiations and increases in retiree medical and drug costs.
PRINCIPAL POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
 
Considering current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we assumed that long-term returns on our pension plan assets would be 8.5% in 2003 and 2002 and 9.5% in 2001. Reducing the assumed return by 100 basis points in 2002 increased annual pension costs by about $480 million pretax. Actual annual investment returns are extremely volatile. Because this short-term market volatility occurs in context of the long-term nature of pension plans, U.S. accounting principles provide that differences between assumed and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. See notes 5 and 6 for additional information about funding status, components of earnings effects and actuarial assumptions of the plans. See page 68 for discussion of pension assumptions.
 
We believe our postretirement benefit costs will increase in 2004 for a number of reasons, including a further reduction in the pension discount rate from 6.75% to 6.0%, additional amortization of investment losses, plan benefit changes as a result of union negotiations and continued increases in retiree healthcare costs. We continue to expect that our plan assets will earn 8.5%, on average, over the long term.
 
We will not make any contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2004. To the best of our ability to forecast the next five years, we do not anticipate making contributions to that Plan so long as expected investment returns are achieved. The present funding status provides assurance of benefits for our participants, but future effects on operating results and funding depend on economic conditions and investment performance.
 
amounted to $0.9 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.8 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Interest costs in 2003 were higher as a result of our issuing $5.0 billion of long-term bonds in the first quarter of the year and higher average short-term borrowings, partially offset by lower average interest rates. The decrease in 2002 was primarily the result of reduced interest on lower tax liabilities following the 2002 settlements described on page 47.
GE INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHARGES
 
was $9.9 billion in 2003 and 2002, compared with $10.6 billion in 2001. Changes over the three-year period reflected the effects of lower interest rates, partially offset by the effects of higher average borrowings of $279.7 billion, $250.1 billion and $212.2 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, used to finance asset growth and acquisitions. The average composite effective interest rate was 3.5% in 2003, compared with 4.1% in 2002 and 5.1% in 2001. In 2003, average assets of $521.6 billion were 15% higher than in 2002, which in turn were 18% higher than in 2001. See page 59 for a discussion of interest rate risk management.
GECS INTEREST EXPENSE ON BORROWINGS
 
 
on consolidated earnings before accounting changes were 21.7%, compared with 19.9% in 2002 and 28.3% in 2001. Our consolidated income tax rate increased in 2003 by 1.8 percentage points over 2002 because our savings from 2003 business dispositions were less than our 2002 savings from settlements with the IRS. Income tax rates were lower than they otherwise would have been in both 2003 and 2002 because of the increasing share of earnings from lower taxed international operations. A more detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax provisions, is provided in note 7. The nature of business activities and associated income taxes differ for GE and for GECS, and a separate analysis of each is presented in the paragraphs that follow.
INCOME TAXES
 
Because GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, GE's pre-tax earnings excluding GECS were $10.7 billion, $14.3 billion and $12.7 billion. On this basis, GE's effective tax rate was 26.7% in 2003 and 2002, and 32.9% in 2001. The 2003 GE rate was reduced by approximately 1.7 percentage points because certain reductions in pre-tax earningsspecifically, lower earnings at Energy and from our principal pension plansaffected taxes at higher than our average rate. The 2003 GE rate was also reduced by approximately 1.0 percentage point (after adjusting for the effect of the lower pre-tax income at Energy and our principal pension plans) from a tax benefit on the disposition of shares of GE Superabrasives U.S., Inc., included in the line, "All othernet" in note 7. In 2002, GE entered into settlements with the IRS concerning certain export tax benefits. The effect of the settlements, the tax portion of which is included on the line "Tax on international activities including exports" in note 7, was a reduction of the GE tax rate of approximately 2.7 percentage points. Also in 2002, GE entered into a tax-advantaged transaction to exchange certain assets for the cable network Bravo. The related reduction of approximately 1.0 percentage point in the GE effective tax rate is reflected in the line, "All othernet" in note 7.
 
GECS effective tax rate was 15.8% in 2003, negative 1.7% in 2002 and 19.8% in 2001. The increase from 2002 to 2003 reflected the absence of a current year counterpart to the 2002 pre-tax loss at ERC and the IRS settlements discussed below, as well as lower pre-tax losses at GE Equity, partially offset by an approximately three percentage point decrease due to the 2003 pre-tax loss and tax benefit on the disposition of shares of ERC Life Reinsurance Corporation (ERC Life), included in the line "All othernet" in note 7.
 
GECS 2002 effective tax rate reflected pre-tax losses at ERC and GE Equity, the effects of lower taxed earnings from international operations and favorable tax settlements with the IRS. Pre-tax losses of $2.9 billion at ERC and $0.6 billion at GE Equity reduced the effective tax rate of GECS by approximately 17 percentage points.
 
During 2002, as a result of revised IRS regulations, GECS reached a settlement with the IRS allowing the deduction of previously realized losses associated with the prior disposition of Kidder Peabody. Also during 2002, we reached a settlement with the IRS regarding the treatment of certain reserves for obligations to policyholders on life insurance contracts in Insurance. The benefits of these settlements, which reduced the GECS tax rate approximately four percentage points (excluding the ERC and GE Equity losses), are included in the line "All othernet" in note 7.
 
SUMMARY OF OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
 
 
Segment Operations
 
are shown on page 48. As discussed in our 2003 Annual Report, effective January 1, 2004, and January 1, 2003, we made changes to the way we report our segments. Information in this report reflects those changes. For additional information, including a description of the products and services included in each segment, see pages 112 and 113.
REVENUES AND SEGMENT PROFIT FOR OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
Segment profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by the Chief Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period. In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar expenses; certain gains/losses from dispositions; and litigation settlements or other charges, responsibility for which precedes the current management team.
 
Segment profit always excludes goodwill amortization, the effects of principal pension plans and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or includes interest and other financial charges and segment income taxes according to how a particular segment management is measuredexcluded in determining operating profit for Advanced Materials, Consumer & Industrial, Energy, Healthcare, Infrastructure, NBC and Transportation; included in determining segment profit which we refer to as "segment net earnings" for Commercial Finance, Consumer Finance, Equipment & Other Services and Insurance.
 
revenues in 2003 were up 2% at $7.1 billion as the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and the OSi acquisition ($0.1 billion) offset lower volume ($0.2 billion). Operating profit of $0.6 billion was 38% lower than in 2002 reflecting higher material costs ($0.2 billion), primarily benzene, and lower productivity ($0.2 billion), partially offset by effects of dispositions and the OSi acquisition. Advanced Materials revenues of $7.0 billion in 2002 were down 2% from 2001 levels, as weakness in pricing ($0.6 billion) offset increased volume ($0.4 billion). Operating profit declined 30% in 2002 to $1.0 billion as productivity and higher volume were not sufficient to offset the effects of lower prices ($0.6 billion).
ADVANCED MATERIALS
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations on page 54 for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
COMMERCIAL FINANCE
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Finance revenues and net earnings increased 6% and 18%, respectively, compared with 2002. The increase in revenues resulted primarily from acquisitions across substantially all businesses ($1.1 billion), higher investment gains at Real Estate ($0.1 billion) and origination growth, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.1 billion). The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from origination growth, acquisitions across substantially all businesses ($0.2 billion), higher investment gains at Real Estate as a result of the sale of properties and our investments in Regency Centers and Prologis ($0.1 billion), lower credit losses ($0.1 billion) resulting from continued improvement in overall portfolio credit quality as reflected by lower delinquencies and nonearning receivables, and growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations ($0.1 billion).
 
The most significant acquisitions affecting Commercial Finance 2003 results were the commercial inventory financing business of Deutsche Financial Services and the structured finance business of ABB, both of which were acquired during the fourth quarter of 2002. These two acquisitions contributed $0.5 billion and $0.1 billion to 2003 revenues and net earnings, respectively.
 
The 2002 increase in revenues of 11% principally reflected acquisitions and increased originations across substantially all businesses, partially offset by reduced market interest rates and lower securitization activity. The 2002 net earnings increase of 15% primarily reflected acquisitions ($0.4 billion) and origination growth, productivity across all businesses and growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations, partially offset by increased credit losses and lower securitization activity.
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 are items not allocated to this segment.
 
CONSUMER FINANCE
 
 
 
Consumer Finance revenues increased 25% in 2003, a result of acquisitions ($1.1 billion), the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion), origination growth as a result of continued global expansion and the premium on the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables ($0.1 billion). Net earnings increased 20% in 2003 as a result of origination growth, growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations, the premium on the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables ($0.1 billion) and acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.2 billion) and lower earnings in Japan, principally as a result of increased personal bankruptcies.
 
The most significant acquisitions affecting Consumer Finance 2003 results were First National Bank, which provides mortgage and sales finance products in the United Kingdom, and the retail sales finance unit of Conseco Finance Corp., both of which were acquired during the second quarter of 2003. These businesses contributed $0.7 billion and $0.1 billion to 2003 revenues and net earnings, respectively.
 
Revenues increased in 2002 primarily as a result of acquisitions ($0.8 billion) and increased international originations, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.4 billion). Net earnings increased 12% in 2002, as a result of origination growth, acquisitions ($0.1 billion), growth in lower taxed earnings from international operations and productivity benefits, partially offset by lower securitization activity ($0.1 billion).
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 are items not allocated to this segment.
 
revenues decreased slightly to $12.8 billion in 2003 as lower prices ($0.3 billion) primarily of home appliances and consumer lighting products were partially offset by the effect of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose slightly as productivity ($0.3 billion), primarily achieved by combining the lighting and appliance businesses, the mix of higher-margin appliances and an investment gain were partially offset by lower prices ($0.3 billion).
CONSUMER & INDUSTRIAL
 
In 2002, Consumer & Industrial revenues fell slightly to $12.9 billion as higher volume ($0.1 billion) was more than offset by the effects of lower prices ($0.3 billion). Operating profit decreased 37% in 2002 to $0.6 billion, with adverse results in the lighting products business, particularly lower prices, higher base costs and higher charges resulting from customer credit issues. Lower prices reduced 2002 operating profit by $0.3 billion.
 
revenues fell 19% to $19.1 billion as growth in the energy services and wind businesses was more than offset by lower volume ($4.8 billion) reflecting the continued effects of the decline in sales of large gas turbines (208 in 2003 compared with 362 in 2002) and industrial aero-derivative products, partially offset by the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). Operating profit dropped 35% to $4.1 billion in 2003, principally reflecting the combined effects of lower volume ($1.3 billion), lower productivity ($0.8 billion) and lower prices ($0.5 billion). Customer contract termination fees, net of associated costs, were $0.6 billion in 2003 and $0.9 billion in 2002, reflecting the decline in demand for new power generation equipment that began in 2002, with such fees primarily occurring in that year and the first half of 2003. Energy revenues increased 12% to $23.6 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($2.2 billion) and price ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose 29% to $6.3 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($0.5 billion), and productivity ($0.6 billion) which included the $0.9 billion positive effect of customer contract termination fees, net of associated costs. Results in 2002 also included restructuring and other charges of $0.2 billion as Energy adjusted its cost structure.
ENERGY
 
Energy orders were $15.4 billion in 2003, compared with $13.3 billion in 2002, reflecting strong demand for wind turbines, oil and gas turbomachinery, and services. The $12.5 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $7.9 billion (of which 70% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $4.6 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $16.5 billion.
 
EQUIPMENT & OTHER SERVICES
 
Equipment & Other Services operating performance over the past three years was primarily the result of the effects of the U.S. recession and higher capacity, in combination with declining growth in many industries served by the businesses in the Equipment & Other Services segment, which resulted in fierce competitive price pressures.
 
Equipment & Other Services revenues and net earnings in 2003, decreased 20% and 8%, respectively, as compared with 2002. More specifically, revenues decreased as a result of the following:
 
 
 
 
These decreases were partially offset by the overall improvement in equity markets and lower level of investment losses in 2003 at GE Equity ($0.2 billion) and the consolidation of certain entities in our financial statements ($0.7 billion) as a result of our July 1, 2003, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, , (see note 29). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from lower asset utilization and price ($0.1 billion) and the absence of a 2002 tax settlement related to Kidder Peabody ($0.2 billion), offset by improved performance in 2003 at GE Equity ($0.2 billion) and the tax benefit related to the sale of ERC Life ($0.1 billion).
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Equipment & Other Services revenues and net earnings in 2002, decreased 28% and 75%, respectively, as compared with 2001. The decrease in revenues resulted primarily from the following:
 
 
 
 
 
These decreases were partially offset by the absence of 2001 asset impairments and product line exits ($0.4 billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from the 2001 sale of Americom ($0.9 billion); reduced net earnings at IT Solutions and AFS ($0.1 billion); increased losses on investments and lower gains at GE Equity ($0.1 billion); and lower asset utilization and price ($0.1 billion). These decreases were partially offset by the absence of 2001 asset impairments and product line exits ($0.7 billion) and a favorable tax settlement with the IRS allowing the deduction of previously realized losses associated with the prior disposition of Kidder Peabody ($0.2 billion).
 
Certain amounts are not included in other financial services operating segments or businesses because they are excluded from the measurement of their operating performance for internal purposes. In 2001, after-tax charges of $0.7 billion primarily related to asset impairments and product line exits, included: other-than-temporary impairments of investments totaling $0.3 billion, the largest of which were primarily held by GE Equity and Insurance; charges of $0.1 billion related to loss events and the exit of certain insurance and financing product lines at Insurance, primarily non-standard automobile and higher limit industrial property insurance coverages; charges of $0.1 billion related to the exit of certain financing product lines at Consumer Finance; and costs related to restructuring totaling $0.1 billion, consisting of involuntary termination benefits, facilities exit costs, and asset impairments.
 
revenues increased 14% to $10.2 billion in 2003 reflecting $0.5 billion of sales from recently acquired businesses, primarily Instrumentarium, and other volume growth ($0.7 billion) that more than offset lower prices ($0.4 billion). Operating profit of $1.7 billion rose 10% as productivity ($0.3 billion) and higher volume ($0.2 billion) more than offset the $0.4 billion effects of lower prices. Healthcare revenues increased 6% to $9.0 billion in 2002, on higher equipment and product services volume, partially offset by lower prices ($0.4 billion) and weak market conditions in Latin America and Japan. Operating profit of $1.5 billion was relatively flat in 2002 as productivity ($0.2 billion) and increased volume ($0.2 billion) were partially offset by a $0.4 billion effect of lower pricing.
HEALTHCARE
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations on page 54 for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
Orders received by Healthcare in 2003 were $10.5 billion, compared with $9.4 billion in 2002. The $4.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $2.8 billion (of which 95% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $1.8 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $4.0 billion.
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to acquire U.K.-based Amersham plc, a world leader in medical diagnostics and life sciences.
 
 
reported a 62% increase in revenues, to $3.1 billion in 2003, on higher volume ($1.0 billion) primarily from acquisitions. Recently acquired businesses, the largest of which were Betz-Dearborn and Osmonics, contributed $0.5 billion of sales in 2003. Operating profit rose 56% to $0.5 billion on higher volume ($0.2 billion) primarily from acquisitions. Infrastructure revenues more than tripled to $1.9 billion in 2002 on higher volume ($1.5 billion), reflecting the contributions of acquisitions. Operating profit at Infrastructure was $0.3 billion in 2002 compared with less than $0.1 billion in 2001, reflecting higher volume ($0.1 billion) and productivity ($0.2 billion).
INFRASTRUCTURE
 
INSURANCE
 
Insurance revenues increased $2.9 billion (12%) in 2003 on increased premium revenues ($2.2 billion), a gain of $0.6 billion on sale of GE Edison Life Insurance Company (Edison Life), higher investment income ($0.4 billion) and the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). The premium revenue increase reflected continued favorable pricing at ERC ($0.5 billion), net volume growth in certain ERC and other insurance businesses ($0.8 billion), absence of prior year loss adjustments ($0.4 billion), adjustment of current year premium accruals to actual ($0.3 billion) and lower levels of ceded premiums resulting from a decline in prior year ERC loss events ($0.1 billion). Partial revenue offsets resulted from absence of revenues following the sale of Edison Life ($0.7 billion) and a $0.2 billion loss on the disposition of Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC) at the end of 2003. Revenues decreased 2% in 2002, principally the result of ongoing planned run-off of acquired policies at Toho and lower realized investment gains.
 
Net earnings increased $2.2 billion in 2003, primarily from the substantial improvement in current operating results at ERC ($2.3 billion) reflecting improved underwriting, lower adverse development (discussed below) and generally favorable industry conditions during the year. Net earnings also benefited from the gain on the sale of Edison Life ($0.3 billion). These increases were partially offset by the absence of a current year counterpart to the favorable tax settlement with the IRS in 2002 ($0.2 billion) and the loss on the sale of FGIC ($0.1 billion after tax).
 
Net earnings decreased $2.0 billion in 2002, primarily the result of adverse development at ERC. Also in 2002, investment gains decreased, an effect partially offset by core premium growth including higher premium pricing at ERC, and benefit from the favorable tax settlement with the IRS.
 
As described on page 67 under the caption "Insurance liabilities and reserves," insurance loss provisions are adjusted up or down based on the best available estimates. Reported claims activity at ERC related to prior year loss events, particularly for liability-related exposures underwritten in 1997 through 2001, has performed much worse than we anticipated.
 
 
 
Throughout 2003, ERC has remained disciplined in rejecting risks that either fail to meet the established standards of price or terms and conditions, or that involve risks for which sufficient historical data do not exist to permit us to make a satisfactory evaluation. For risks that pass our criteria, we have sought to retain and even judiciously expand our business. On the other hand, we have curtailed or exited business in particular property and casualty business channels when expected returns do not appear to justify the risks.
 
ERC's improved operating performance is illustrated by its "combined ratio"the sum of claims-related losses incurred plus related underwriting expenses in relation to earned premiums. A combined ratio of less than 100% reflects an underwriting profit, that is, profit before investment income, another significant revenue source for most insurance entities. ERC's 2003 combined ratio was 106%, but, in an early indication of the effectiveness of our revised underwriting standards, the combined ratio excluding prior-year loss events was 93%.
 
Our mortgage insurance business had favorable development throughout the three years ended December 31, 2003, primarily reflecting continued strength in certain real estate markets and the success of our loss containment initiatives in that business.
 
Included in Equipment & Other Services on page 51 are items not allocated to this segment. See page 44 for a discussion of our planned Genworth offering.
 
revenues decreased 4% to $6.9 billion in 2003 following a 24% increase to $7.1 billion in 2002. Operating profit rose 21% to $2.0 billion in 2003, following an 18% increase in the prior year. Results were affected by several events during the three-year period. Improved pricing and higher syndication and network sales increased revenues by $0.2 billion in 2002 and higher prices and network sales increased revenues $0.5 billion in 2003, but were partially offset in 2003 by advertising reductions because of coverage of the Iraq war ($0.1 billion). The Salt Lake City Olympic Games and final year of NBA coverage contributed $0.7 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, to 2002 revenues, but the NBA contract resulted in a loss that exceeded profit from the Olympics. We acquired Telemundo and Bravo in 2002; together they added $0.7 billion and $0.3 billion of advertising revenues in 2003 and 2002, respectively, and $0.1 billion operating profit in 2003. The 2002 exchange of certain assets for Bravo resulted in $0.6 billion of gain, $0.2 billion of which was attributed to NBC's segment results, an amount equal to $0.2 billion of other charges for impairments in 2002. The remainder was included in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations as discussed on page 54.
NBC
 
During 2003, we entered into an agreement to merge NBC with Vivendi Universal Entertainment to create one of the world's premier media companies, NBC Universal.
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
 
Transportation revenues decreased slightly in 2003 on lower volume ($0.2 billion). Operating profit rose 6% in 2003 to $2.7 billion as productivity ($0.2 billion) more than offset the effects of lower volume. Revenues in 2002 decreased slightly on lower prices ($0.1 billion) and lower volume ($0.1 billion). Operating profit also fell slightly as productivity partially offset the effects of lower prices.
 
Aircraft Engines revenues decreased 4% to $11.0 billion in 2003 reflecting lower volume ($0.5 billion), primarily related to commercial aircraft and industrial aero-derivative engines, partially offset by higher military spare parts volume. Despite the decrease in revenues, operating profit rose 5% to $2.2 billion reflecting the effects of productivity ($0.2 billion) largely from workforce efficiency, and lower research and development spending upon completion of certain development programs, more than offsetting the effect of decreased volume ($0.1 billion). Aircraft Engines reported a 1% decrease in revenues in 2002 as commercial engine pricing pressures and reduced commercial product services revenues, combined with lower industrial units, were substantially offset by increased military sales. Operating profit in 2002 was 3% lower than in 2001, primarily as a result of lower pricing ($0.1 billion), including pricing for commercial engines, lower product services volume from reduced customer flight hours, and higher labor costs, partially offset by lower material costs and productivity.
 
In 2003, Aircraft Engines revenues from sales to the U.S. government were $2.4 billion, compared with $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Aircraft Engines received orders of $10.4 billion in 2003, compared with $11.6 billion in 2002, as military orders decreased from $4.3 billion to $2.2 billion and commercial engines increased $0.6 billion to $2.3 billion. The $10.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $8.0 billion (of which 38% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $2.6 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $11.5 billion.
 
        Rail revenues of $2.5 billion increased 10% compared with 2002 on higher volume ($0.2 billion), primarily from locomotive sales and growth in the global signaling business. Operating profit rose 11% to $0.5 billion in 2003 on the higher volume, partially offset by reduced pricing. In 2002, Rail revenues of $2.3 billion were 2% lower and operating profit of $0.4 billion was about the same as in 2001, as product services revenues, strong variable cost productivity and lower material costs offset the effects of lower volume and pricing pressures.
 
 
Rail received orders of $2.9 billion in 2003, compared with $2.8 billion in 2002. The $2.4 billion total backlog at year-end 2003 comprised unfilled product orders of $1.3 billion (of which 69% was scheduled for delivery in 2004) and product services orders of $1.1 billion scheduled for 2004 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2002, total backlog was $2.1 billion.
 
See GE Corporate Items and Eliminations below for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.
 
GE CORPORATE ITEMS AND ELIMINATIONS
 
 
GE Corporate Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between operating segments; cost reductions from our principal pension plans; liquidating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; certain non-allocated amounts described below; a variety of sundry items; and, before 2002, goodwill amortization. Corporate overhead is allocated to GE operating segments based on a ratio of segment net cost of operations, excluding direct materials, to total company cost of operations. This caption also includes internal allocated costs for segment funds on deposit.
 
Not allocatedCertain amounts are not included in GE operating segments because they are excluded from the measurement of their operating performance for internal purposes. In 2003 and 2002, these comprised charges of $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively, for settlement of litigation, restructuring and other charges at Healthcare; in 2002, a portion of NBC's gain from the Bravo exchange; in 2002, a total of $0.1 billion for restructuring and other charges at Transportation and Advanced Materials; and in 2001, a total of $0.5 billion of goodwill amortization.
 
Other includes a $0.5 billion gain from the sale of 90% of Global eXchange Services in 2002.
 
International Operations
 
Our international activities span all global regions and primarily encompass manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our plants domiciled in other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also often have new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things, higher receivables delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellation of sales and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local currency financing costs and a slowdown in established financial services activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial services activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices and lower U.S. debt financing costs.
 
Estimated results of international activities include the results of our operations located outside the United States plus all U.S. exports. We classify certain GECS operations that cannot meaningfully be associated with specific geographic areas as "Other international" for this purpose.
 
International revenues rose 14% to $60.8 billion in 2003 compared with $53.4 billion and $51.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. International revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 45% in 2003, compared with 40% and 41% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The effects of exchange rates on reported results were to increase revenues by $3.8 billion and $0.4 billion in 2003 and 2002, respectively, and increase earnings by $0.1 billion in 2003 and decrease earnings by $0.1 billion in 2002.
 
CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL REVENUES
 
 
GE international revenues were $33.0 billion, $29.0 billion and $28.3 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $4.0 billion increase in GE international revenues related to increased operations outside the U.S., partially offset by lower U.S. exports.
 
 
GE revenues in Europe rose 25%, led by Energy, Healthcare and Infrastructure, reflecting the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar and volume growth. GE revenues in the Pacific Basin increased 14% as most businesses reported improved results. Energy and Infrastructure were the primary contributors to a 16% increase in revenues in the Americas and Energy more than accounted for the 10% decrease in U.S. exports. The increase in 2002 related to both an increase in operations outside the U.S. and higher U.S. exports. Revenue increases in Europe were led by Healthcare in 2002. Transportation and Energy were the primary contributors to a 9% decrease in revenues in the Americas. Increases in U.S. export sales in 2002 were primarily in Advanced Materials and Energy, partially offset by lower exports by Healthcare and Transportation.
 
 
GECS international revenues were $27.8 billion, $24.4 billion and $23.6 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $3.4 billion increase related to a 21% increase in Europe in 2003 as a result of the growth in premiums and price increases at Insurance ($2.1 billion), acquisitions ($1.0 billion) and the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion), primarily at Consumer Finance and Commercial Finance, partially offset by geographic market exits at certain Equipment & Other Services businesses ($1.3 billion).
 
International operating profit was $8.8 billion in 2003, an increase of 35% over 2002, which was 7% higher than in 2001. Operating profit in 2003 rose 89% to $4.0 billion in Europe, primarily as a result of lower adverse development at Insurance ($1.1 billion). Operating profit also rose 30% to $1.5 billion in the Americas and was relatively unchanged in the Pacific Basin ($2.4 billion) and "Other international" ($0.9 billion).
 
Total assets of international operations were $258.9 billion in 2003 (40% of consolidated assets), an increase of $29.9 billion, or 13%, over 2002. GECS international assets grew 12% from $207.5 billion at the end of 2002 to $231.9 billion at the end of 2003. GECS assets increased 31% in Europe as a result of acquisitions ($14.8 billion), primarily at Consumer Finance and Commercial Finance, the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($11.7 billion) and growth at Consumer Finance and Insurance. GECS assets increased 13% in the Americas as a result of growth at Commercial Finance and Insurance.
 
Financial results of our international activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal currencies are the British pound sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar.
 
Environmental Matters
 
Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws.
 
        We have developed environmental, health and safety management systems that are implemented at all of our facilities and track our performance. Since 1996, we have reduced employee injuries by over 70% as well as reducing air and wastewater exceedances and emissions at our facilities. We also actively participate in various programs that recognize facilities with health and safety programs that exceed legal requirements, including the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) as well as a similar government program in Mexico. Participation in these programs requires government audits to verify our comprehensive health and safety management systems. We are a leading participant in the U.S. VPP program with 82 sites, and have an additional 25 sites participating in the Mexico program. We have a Global Star program designed to recognize sites with world-class health and safety programs in those countries without government VPP programs. The 44 Global Star sites have passed a rigorous evaluation conducted by GE internal health and safety experts. We also have 79 sites accredited by outside auditors under the ISO 14000 Standard for Environmental Management Systems.
 
 
Over the last two years we spent a total of about $0.1 billion for projects related to the environment. These amounts exclude expenditures for remediation actions, which are principally expensed and are discussed below. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devicessuch as waste-water treatment plants, groundwater monitoring devices, air strippers or separators, and incineratorsat new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent with policies stressing environmental responsibility, we expect our capital expenditures other than for remediation projects to total about $0.1 billion over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.
 
We also are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to $0.1 billion in each of the last two years. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in the range of $0.1 billion to $0.2 billion over the next two years.
 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ruled in February 2002 that approximately 150,000 pounds of polychlo-rinated biphenyls (PCBs) must be dredged from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State. We have submitted what is known as a "Good Faith Offer" under the Superfund law and began negotiations with the EPA to undertake the design and engineering of the remedy. Our Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, included liabilities for the estimated costs of this remediation.
 
FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
 
This discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of Financial Position (pages 72-73), Statement of Changes in Shareowners' Equity (page 70) and the Statement of Cash Flows (pages 74-75).
 
Only a small portion of GECS business is directly related to other GE operations. The fundamental differences between GE and GECS are reflected in the measurements commonly used by investors, rating agencies and financial analysts. These differences will become clearer in the discussion that follows with respect to the more significant items in the financial statements.
 
Overview of Financial Position
 
Major changes in our financial position resulted from the following:
 
 
 
 
 
(pages 72-73)
Statement of Financial Position
 
Because GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of Financial Positionproperty, plant and equipment, and borrowings, for examplethe following discussion addresses significant captions in the "consolidated" statement. Within the following discussions, however, we distinguish between GE and GECS activities in order to permit meaningful analysis of each individual statement.
 
for each of the past two years comprised mainly investment-grade debt securities held by Insurance in support of obligations to annuitants and policyholders. Investment securities were $120.7 billion at the end of 2003, compared with $116.9 billion at the end of 2002. The increase of $3.8 billion was primarily the result of $14.4 billion of investment securities held by Trinity. The increase was also attributed to the investment of premiums received, reinvestment of investment income and the performance of the equity and debt markets, net of impairments and losses ($5.7 billion). These were partially offset by the sales of Edison Life, U.S. Auto and Home, FGIC and ERC Life businesses ($18.6 billion).
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
We regularly review investment securities for impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which carrying value exceeds market value, the duration of that market decline, our ability to hold to recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects for the issuer of the security. Of securities with unrealized losses at December 31, 2003, approximately $0.1 billion of portfolio value is at risk of being charged to earnings in the next 12 months. Impairment losses recognized in 2003 and 2002 were $0.5 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively.
 
Gross unrealized gains and losses were $4.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2003, compared with $4.4 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2002, reflecting broad market improvement in 2003. We estimate that available gains, net of hedging positions and estimated impairment of insurance intangible assets, could be as much as $2.1 billion at December 31, 2003. Market value used in determining unrealized gains and losses is defined by relevant accounting standards and should not be viewed as a forecast of future gains or losses. See note 9.
 
representing GE cash invested in inventories and receivables from customers, less trade payables and progress collections, increased to $5.3 billion at the end of 2003 from $3.8 billion at the end of 2002. Working capital balances are significantly affected by progress collections, primarily from Energy customers, as shown below:
WORKING CAPITAL,
 
 
We expect Energy progress collections to continue to decline in 2004. We discuss current receivables and inventories, two important elements of working capital, in the following paragraphs.
 
for GE were $11.0 billion at the end of 2003 and 2002, and included $6.7 billion due from customers at the end of 2003, compared with $6.3 billion at the end of 2002. Turnover of customer receivables from sales of goods and services was 10.4 in 2003, compared with 10.9 in 2002. Excluding Energy, turnover improved from 12.6 in 2002 to 13.3 in 2003. Other current receivables are primarily amounts that did not originate from sales of GE goods or services, such as advances to suppliers in connection with large contracts. See note 10.
CURRENT RECEIVABLES
 
for GE were $8.6 billion at December 31, 2003, down $0.4 billion from the end of 2002. GE inventory turnover was 7.4 in 2003, a decrease from 7.7 in 2002, as a result of declining sales at Energy. Excluding Energy, turnover was 7.6 and 7.5 in 2003 and 2002, respectively. See note 11.
INVENTORIES
 
is our largest category of assets and represents one of our primary sources of revenues. The portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance for losses, increased to $232.3 billion at December 31, 2003, from $203.6 billion at the end of 2002, as discussed in the following paragraphs. The related allowance for losses at the end of 2003 amounted to $6.3 billion compared with $5.5 billion at December 31, 2002, representing our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio.
FINANCING RECEIVABLES
 
A discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing receivables portfolio follows. For purposes of that discussion, "delinquent" receivables are those that are 30 days or more past due; "nonearning" receivables are those that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection has otherwise become doubtful); and "reduced-earning" receivables are commercial receivables whose terms have been restructured to a below-market yield.
 
Commercial Finance financing receivables, before allowance for losses, totaled $135.7 billion at December 31, 2003, compared with $133.6 billion at December 31, 2002, and consisted of loans and leases to the equipment, commercial and industrial, real estate and commercial aircraft industries. This portfolio of receivables increased primarily from origination growth ($17.3 billion), the net effects of international receivables translated into the weaker U.S. dollar ($5.3 billion) and acquisitions ($4.3 billion), partially offset by securitizations and sales ($25.2 billion). Related non-earning and reduced-earning receivables were $1.7 billion (1.3% of outstanding receivables) at December 31, 2003, compared with $2.2 billion (1.6% of outstanding receivables) at year-end 2002, the result of improving economic conditions and collection results. Commercial Finance financing receivables are generally backed by assets and there is a broad spread of geographic and credit risk in the portfolio.
 
 
Consumer Finance financing receivables, before allowance for losses, primarily card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases, and residential mortgages, were $94.7 billion at December 31, 2003, compared with $66.0 billion at December 31, 2002. This portfolio of receivables increased as a result of acquisitions ($13.9 billion), the net effects of international receivables translated into the weaker U.S. dollar ($8.6 billion) and origination growth, partially offset by the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables. Acquisitions are a key to our growth strategy as we expand our global market presence. Nonearning consumer receivables at December 31, 2003, were $2.5 billion (2.6% of outstanding receivables), compared with $1.6 billion (2.4% of outstanding receivables) at year-end 2002. This increase is the result of adverse credit performance in Japan and growth in our secured financing business, a business that tends to experience relatively higher delinquencies but relatively lower losses than the rest of our consumer portfolio.
 
Equipment & Other Services financing receivables, amounted to $1.9 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, before allowance for losses. Nonearning receivables of $0.1 billion, 2.3% and 1.4% of outstanding receivables at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, were about the same as at the end of 2002.
 
Delinquency rates on managed Consumer Finance financing receivables at December 31, 2003, were 5.57%; at year-end 2002 were 5.58%; and at year-end 2001 were 5.34%. Delinquency rates remained stable from 2002 to 2003, as a change in portfolio mix related to the growth in our secured financing business was offset by improved collection results. Increased 2002 delinquency rates reflected our secured financing business acquired in 2001 and volume growth in that business in 2002. When delinquent, these loans have relatively lower losses than the rest of our consumer portfolio. Delinquency rates on managed Commercial Finance equipment loans and leases were 1.37%, 1.74% and 2.14% at year-end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decline at December 31, 2003, primarily reflected improved economic conditions and collection results. The decline at December 31, 2002, primarily reflected a higher concentration of short-term receivables coupled with improved collection results. See notes 12 and 13.
 
totaled $11.9 billion at December 31, 2003, and $13.0 billion at December 31, 2002, and consist primarily of nonfinancing customer receivables, accrued investment income, amounts due from GE (generally related to certain material procurement programs), amounts due under operating leases, receivables due on sale of securities and various sundry items. Balances at December 31, 2003 and 2002, include securitized, managed GE trade receivables of $2.7 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively.
OTHER GECS RECEIVABLES
 
(including equipment leased to others) was $53.4 billion at December 31, 2003, up $4.3 billion from 2002, primarily reflecting acquisitions of commercial aircraft and vehicles at Commercial Finance. GE property, plant and equipment consists of investments for its own productive use, whereas the largest element for GECS is equipment provided to third parties on operating leases. Details by category of investment are presented in note 15.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
GE expenditures for plant and equipment during 2003 totaled $2.2 billion, compared with $2.4 billion in 2002. Total expenditures for the past five years were $12.5 billion, of which 37% was investment for growth through new capacity and product development; 35% was investment in productivity through new equipment and process improvements; and 28% was investment for other purposes such as improvement of research and development facilities and safety and environmental protection.
 
GECS additions to property, plant and equipment (including equipment leased to others) were $7.6 billion and $11.7 billion during 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily reflecting additions of commercial aircraft and vehicles at Commercial Finance.
 
were $55.0 billion at year-end 2003, up from $46.2 billion at year-end 2002. GE intangibles increased to $30.2 billion from $23.1 billion at the end of 2002, principally as a result of goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions by Healthcare, NBC and Advanced Materials. GECS intangibles increased $1.7 billion to $24.8 billion, reflecting goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions, and the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar, partially offset by the disposition of Edison Life. See note 16.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
were $26.5 billion at December 31, 2003, as a result of our adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. At transition we consolidated $36.3 billion of assets, but because we have stopped transferring assets to these entities, balances decreased reflecting repayments. See note 29.
ASSETS IN CONSOLIDATED, LIQUIDATING SECURITIZATION ENTITIES
 
totaled $97.1 billion at year-end 2003, an increase of $3.9 billion. This increase resulted principally from investment of funds received as collateral on securities loaned from the Insurance investment securities portfolio, increases in separate accounts (investments controlled by policyholders) resulting from the net effects of exchange rates and broad market improvements in 2003 and an increase in the prepaid pension asset. These increases were partially offset by the sale of The Home Depot private label credit card receivables, decreases in associated companies and the disposition of Edison Life. See note 17.
ALL OTHER ASSETS
 
were $304.9 billion at December 31, 2003, compared with $279.4 billion at the end of 2002.
CONSOLIDATED BORROWINGS
 
GE total borrowings were $10.9 billion at year-end 2003 ($2.5 billion short term, $8.4 billion long term), an increase of $1.1 billion from year end 2002. GE total debt at the end of 2003 equaled 12.0% of total capital, down from 13.1% at the end of 2002.
 
GECS total borrowings were $295.5 billion at December 31, 2003, of which $133.0 billion is due in 2004 and $162.5 billion is due in subsequent years. Comparable amounts at the end of 2002 were $270.9 billion in total, $130.1 billion due within one year and $140.8 billion due thereafter. A large portion of GECS borrowings ($80.6 billion and $84.2 billion at the end of 2003 and 2002, respectively) was issued in active commercial paper markets that we believe will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing. The average remaining terms and interest rates of GE Capital commercial paper were 50 days and 1.48% at the end of 2003, compared with 47 days and 1.95% at the end of 2002. The GE Capital ratio of debt to equity was 6.20 to 1 at the end of 2003 and 6.58 to 1 at the end of 2002. See note 18.
 
were $25.7 billion at December 31, 2003, as a result of our adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. At transition we consolidated $35.8 billion of liabilities, but because we have stopped transferring assets to these entities, balances decreased reflecting repayments. See note 29.
LIABILITIES IN CONSOLIDATED, LIQUIDATING SECURITIZATION ENTITIES
 
of $136.3 billion at December 31, 2003, were $0.4 billion higher than in 2002. The increase is primarily attributable to the additional liabilities associated with the consolidation of Trinity upon our 2003 adoption of FIN 46 ($14.1 billion), the net effects of the weaker U.S. dollar and growth in separate accounts, deferred annuities and adverse development ($6.2 billion), partially offset by the sale of Edison Life, U.S. Auto and Home, ERC Life and FGIC businesses ($19.7 billion). See note 19.
INSURANCE LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND ANNUITY BENEFITS
 
are managed with a variety of straightforward techniques, including match funding and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition, we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or floating nature of the assets we are acquiring. We apply strict policies to manage each of these risks, including prohibitions on derivatives trading, derivatives market-making or other speculative activities. Following is an analysis of the potential effects of changes in currency exchange and interest rates using so-called "shock" tests that model effects of shifts in rates. These are not forecasts.
EXCHANGE RATE AND INTEREST RATE RISKS
 
 
 
(page 70)
Statement of Changes in Shareowners' Equity
 
Shareowners' equity increased $15.5 billion, $8.9 billion and $4.3 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increases were largely attributable to net earnings of $15.0 billion, $14.1 billion and $13.7 billion, partially offset by dividends declared of $7.8 billion, $7.3 billion and $6.6 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Currency translation adjustments increased equity by $5.1 billion in 2003, compared with an increase of $1.0 billion in 2002 and a reduction of $0.6 billion in 2001. Changes in the currency translation adjustment reflect the effects of changes in currency exchange rates on our net investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2003 and 2002, the euro and, to a lesser extent, Asian currencies strengthened against the dollar. In 2001, Asian currencies weakened versus the dollar, while the euro was relatively unchanged. Accumulated currency translation adjustments affect net earnings only when all or a portion of an affiliate is disposed of or substantially liquidated.
 
 
(pages 74-75)
Overview of Our Cash Flow from 2001 through 2003
 
GE cash from operating activities (CFOA) is a useful measure of performance for our non-financial businesses. Our GE Statement of Cash Flows on page 74 shows CFOA in the required format. While that display is of some use in analyzing how various assets and liabilities affected our year-end cash positions, we believe it is also useful to supplement that display and to examine in a broader context the business activities that provide and require cash. This overview provides that perspective.
 
CFOA in 2003 totaled $12.9 billion, an increase of $2.8 billion from the previous year's $10.1 billion. Energy experience over this period, which was significantly affected by the 2002 peak of the U.S. power bubble, can obscure significant ongoing trends. For example, one major factor that affects CFOA comparisons is the effect of progress collections in Energy. Excluding these effects, CFOA was $15.2 billion in 2003, the same as 2002 and up from $13.8 billion in 2001, including effects of receivable monetization programs in both years.
 
Generally, factors that affect our earningsfor example, pricing, volume, costs and productivityaffect CFOA similarly. However, while management of working capital, including timing of collections and payments and levels of inventory, affects operating results only indirectly, the effect of these programs on CFOA can be significant. Excluding progress collections, working capital improvements contributed $2.2 billion and $0.1 billion to CFOA in 2003 and 2002, respectively, as we applied our inventory and other working capital management tools broadly.
 
The most significant source of cash in CFOA is customer-related activities, the largest of which is collecting cash following a product or services sale. Excluding Energy, GE cash collections from customer-related activities were about $51.9 billion in 2003, an increase of about $2.6 billion from 2002. This increase is consistent with the change in comparable GE operating segment revenues, including increases at Healthcare, Infrastructure and Advanced Materials, partially offset by decreases at NBC and Transportation. Including Energy, cash from customer-related activities was about $68.4 billion and $67.5 billion in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Analyses of operating segment revenues on page 48 is the best way of understanding their customer-related CFOA.
 
The most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers and employees for the wide range of material and services necessary in a diversified global organization. Excluding payments by Energy, GE cash paid to suppliers and employees was about $40.9 billion in 2003, an increase of about $1.8 billion from 2002. Including Energy, cash paid to suppliers and employees was about $56.2 billion and $57.1 billion in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
CFOA also included cash dividends from GECS, totaling $3.4 billion in 2003 and $2.0 billion in 2002 and 2001. These dividends represented distribution of a portion of GECS retained earnings, and are distinct from cash from operating activities within the financial services businesses, which decreased in 2003 by $0.1 billion to $21.4 billion. Financial services cash is not necessarily freely available for alternative uses. For example, cash generated by our Insurance businesses is restricted by various insurance regulations (see note 23). Further, any reinvestment in financing receivables is shown in cash used for investing, not operating activities. Therefore maintaining or growing Commercial and Consumer Finance assets requires that we invest much of the cash they generate from operating activities in their earning assets. Also, we are increasing the equity of our financial services businesses as discussed on page 62. The amount we show in CFOA is the total dividend, including the normal dividend as well as any special dividends.
 
 
 
Based on past performance and current expectations, in combination with the financial flexibility that comes with a strong balance sheet and the highest credit ratings, we believe we are in a sound position to grow dividends and continue making selective investments for long-term growth. With the financial flexibility that comes with excellent credit ratings, we believe that GE and GECS should be well positioned to meet the global needs of its customers for capital and to continue providing our shareowners with good returns.
 
 
Cash Requirements
 
Achieving optimal returns on cash used often involves making long-term commitments. SEC regulations require that we present our contractual obligations, and we have done so in the table that follows. However, our future cash flow prospects cannot reasonably be assessed based on such obligationsthe most significant factor affecting our future cash flows is our ability to earn and collect cash from customers. Future cash outflows, whether they are contractual obligations or not, will vary based on our future needs. While some such outflows are completely fixed (for example, commitments to repay principal and interest on fixed-rate borrowings) most depend on future events (for example, supply agreements to purchase commodity raw materials at quantities to be determined in the future at then-market prices). Many purchase obligations are linked to cash-generating revenue contracts (for example, payments to subcontractors under long-term contracts). Further, normal operations involve significant expenditures that are not based on "commitments," for example, expenditures for income taxes or for payroll.
 
As defined by reporting regulations, our consolidated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003, follow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other matters that provide additional context for considering our liquidity position are discussed below.
 
in the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns. Beyond improving returns, these securitization transactions serve as funding sources for a variety of diversified lending and securities transactions. Our securitization transactions are similar to those used by many financial institutions. In a typical transaction, assets are sold by the transferor to a special purpose entity, which purchases the assets with cash raised through issuance of beneficial interests (usually debt instruments) to third party investors. Investors in the beneficial interests usually have recourse to the assets in the special purpose entities (SPEs) and often benefit from credit enhancements supporting the assets (such as overcollateralization). The SPE may also hold derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, in order to match the interest rate characteristics of the assets with those of the beneficial interests. An example is an interest rate swap converting fixed rate assets to variable rate to match floating rate debt instruments issued by the SPE.
WE USE OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
 
Historically, we have used both sponsored and third-party entities to execute securitization transactions in the commercial paper and term markets. With our adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003, consolidating $36.3 billion of assets and $35.8 billion of liabilities in certain sponsored entities, we stopped executing new securitization transactions with those entities. We continue to engage in securitization transactions with third party conduits and through public market term securitizations.
 
Assets held by SPEs include: receivables secured by equipment, commercial real estate and other assets; credit card receivables; and trade receivables. Examples of these assets include loans and leases on manufacturing and transportation equipment, loans on commercial property, commercial loans, and balances of high credit quality accounts from sales of a broad range of products and services to a diversified customer base. In certain transactions, the credit quality of assets transferred is enhanced by providing credit support. Off-balance sheet assets securitized totaled $26.8 billion and $54.9 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. This comparison is significantly affected by the consolidation of a majority of our sponsored and supported securitization entities.
 
In order to provide comparative information about our overall securitization activities, the disclosures that follow describe all entities used for securitization, including those that were recently consolidated under FIN 46.
 
 
We provide financial support related to assets held by certain SPEs through liquidity agreements, credit support, and guarantee and reimbursement contracts. Net 2004 credit and liquidity support amounted to $21.5 billion at January 1, 2004, down from $27.5 billion a year earlier. Of the total, $18.4 billion relates to assets and debt that were consolidated under FIN 46. The $21.5 billion includes credit support, in which we provide recourse for a maximum of $14.1 billion of credit losses in SPEs. Of this amount, $8.6 billion related to assets that were consolidated under FIN 46. Potential credit losses are provided for in our financial statements. Based on management's best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio of assets that remain off-balance sheet, our financial statements included $0.1 billion representing fair value of recourse obligations at year-end 2003. See note 29.
 
We periodically enter into guarantees and other similar arrangements as part of transactions in the ordinary course of business. These are described further in note 30.
 
We have extensive experience in evaluating economic, liquidity and credit risk. In view of this experience, the high quality of assets in these entities, the historically robust quality of commercial paper markets, and the historical reliability of controls applied to both asset servicing and to activities in the credit markets, we believe that, under any reasonable future economic developments, the likelihood is remote that any financial support arrangements could have an adverse economic effect on our financial position or results of operations.
 
Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants
 
The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate the debt of GE, GECS and GE Capital, the major borrowing affiliate of GECS. These agencies have given the highest debt ratings to GE and GE Capital (long-term rating AAA/Aaa; short-term rating A-1+/P-1). One of our strategic objectives is to maintain these ratings as they serve to lower our cost of funds and to facilitate our access to a variety of lenders. We manage our businesses in a fashion that is consistent with maintaining our Triple-A ratings.
 
GE, GECS and GE Capital have distinct business characteristics that the major debt rating agencies evaluate both quantitatively and qualitatively.
 
Quantitative measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
Qualitative measures include:
 
 
 
 
GE Capital's ratings are supported contractually by a GE commitment to maintain the ratio of earnings to fixed charges at a specified level.
 
Before 2003, GE Capital maintained a capital structure that included about $8 of debt for each $1 of equitya "leverage ratio" of 8:1. For purposes of measuring segment profit, each of our financial services businesses was also assigned debt and interest costs on the basis of that consolidated 8:1 leverage ratio. As of January 1, 2003, we extended a business-specific, market-based leverage to the performance measurement of each of our financial services businesses. As a result, at January 1, 2003, debt of $12.5 billion previously allocated to the segments was allocated to the Equipment & Other Services segment. We refer to this as "parent supported debt."
 
During 2003, a total of $4.6 billion of such debt was eliminated, reducing the total to $7.9 billion at year end. This reduction was the result of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
We plan to continue to reduce debt relative to our equity in financial services businesses. As such, we remain on track to eliminate parent supported debt by the end of 2005. Proceeds from further strategic dispositions, including Genworth, will continue to be evaluated when and if they are received, but we anticipate using at least some of those proceeds to reduce financial services debt.
 
During 2003, the financial services business declared special dividends to GE of $2.7 billion which related to the strategic dispositions in the Insurance segment ($1.7 billion) and more efficient capital management programs ($1.0 billion).
 
GE Capital issued $51.1 billion of long-term debt in the U.S. and 13 international markets in 2003 with maturities ranging from two years to 37 years bearing fixed and floating interest rates. This debt was issued to both institutional investors and retail investors.
 
These funds were used primarily for maturing long-term debt, acquisitions and asset growth, with the remainder used to reduce the amount of commercial paper outstanding. GE Capital anticipates issuing approximately $50 billion to $60 billion of long-term debt using both U.S. and international institutional and retail markets during 2004. The ultimate amount of debt issuances will depend on the growth in assets, acquisition activity, availability of markets and movements in interest rates.
 
Following is the debt composition of GECS:
 
 
We target a ratio for commercial paper of 25% to 35% of outstanding debt based on the anticipated composition of our assets and the liquidity profile of our debt. GE Capital is the most widely held name in global commercial paper markets.
 
We believe that alternative sources of liquidity are sufficient to permit an orderly transition from commercial paper in the unlikely event of impaired access to those markets. Funding sources on which we would rely would depend on the nature of such a hypothetical event, but include $57.2 billion of contractually committed lending agreements with 85 highly-rated global banks and investment banks, an increase of $3.1 billion since December 31, 2002. See note 18.
 
Beyond contractually committed lending agreements, other sources of liquidity include medium and long-term funding, monetization, asset securitization, cash receipts from our lending and leasing activities, short-term secured funding on global assets, and potential asset sales.
 
are described below.
PRINCIPAL DEBT CONDITIONS
 
The following two conditions relate to GE and GECS:
 
 
 
The following three conditions relate to securitization SPEs and apply to entities that were consolidated upon adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003, that are reported in the captions, "Consolidated, liquidating securitization entities":
 
 
 
 
The following condition relates to the Trinity SPEs, which are reported in the captions, "Investment securities" and "Insurance liabilities, reserves and annuity benefits":
 
 
In our history, we have never violated any of the above conditions either at GE or at GECS. We believe that under any reasonable future economic developments, the likelihood that any such arrangements could have a significant effect on our operations, cash flows or financial position is remote.
 
 
is an industry in which we have a significant ongoing interest. As has been widely reported, this industry has been under pressure, but has undertaken steps to reduce unused capacity and align costs. Consequently, during 2003, major U.S. and European airlines achieved moderate improvements in operations, including traffic, revenues and load factors. Our customers that had been operating at losses generally reduced those losses in 2003, and their year end cash positions were improved.
COMMERCIAL AVIATION
 
At December 31, 2003, we had the following positions related to our global commercial aviation business, principally in our Commercial Finance segment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regional jets, with capacity for 50-90 passengers, have had a sig-nificant effect on the commercial aviation industry in recent years. These jets have enabled airlines to replace less efficient equipment, both turboprop and older, narrow-bodied jets. At December 31, 2003, our fleet included 278 regional jets, diversifying our total aircraft holdings. Two of our businesses have capitalized on the trend toward regional jets; Transportation through engine sales and servicing and Commercial Finance through leases. We believe that we continue to offer a suitable range of equipment that is attractive to the industry.
 
Transportation sales of new equipment often include long-term customer financing commitments. Under these commitments, it is our policy to establish a secured position in the aircraft being financed. At year-end 2003, guarantees of $0.4 billion were in place. Further, we had committed $1.2 billion to provide financial assistance on future aircraft sales (see note 30). Our guarantees and commitments are secured by individual aircraft or pools of aircraft engines related to the specific financing arrangement. When particular guarantees exceed the value of the associated security, we consider credit risk of the associated customer and provide for estimated losses. At December 31, 2003, the total estimated fair value of aircraft securing these guarantees exceeded the guaranteed amounts, net of the associated allowance for losses.
 
UAL Corp. and Air Canada, the parent companies of two of our major airline customers, are experiencing significant financial difficulties and both filed for reorganization in bankruptcy. UAL Corp. filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002 and Air Canada filed in Canada on April 1, 2003. At December 31, 2003, our total exposure related to these airlines amounted to $4.3 billion, including loans, leases, investment securities and commitments. Various Boeing, Airbus and Bombardier aircraft secure substantially all of these financial exposures. Included in this exposure is a $0.7 billion debtor-in-possession financing commitment to Air Canada. Another major airline customer, US Airways Group, parent of US Airways, filed for reorganization in bankruptcy in 2002 but emerged from bankruptcy on March 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, our total exposure related to US Airways amounted to $2.5 billion, including leases, loans, investment securities and commitments. Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (Atlas Air) filed for reorganization in bankruptcy in January 2004. At December 31, 2003, our total exposure to Atlas Air was $1.0 billion of operating leases, secured loans and investment securities. Our financial statements include provisions for probable losses based on our best estimates of such losses.
 
Commercial Finance tests the recoverability of its commercial aircraft operating lease portfolio as described on page 67, and recognized impairment losses of $0.2 billion in each of the last two years.
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
Information summarized on the following page is divided into three sections: upper portionconsolidated data; middle portionGE data that reflect various conventional measurements for such enterprises; and lower portionGECS data that reflect key information pertinent to financial services businesses.
 
expenditures were $2.7 billion in 2003, compared with $2.6 billion and $2.3 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. In 2003, expenditures from GE's own funds were $2.1 billion compared with $2.2 billion in 2002. Expenditures funded by customers (mainly the U.S. government) were $0.6 billion in 2003, compared with $0.4 billion in 2002. The decrease in company funded expenditures was attributed to commercial introduction of major development programs, including the H System gas turbine at Energy and U.S. Federal Aviation Administration certification of the GE90-115B jet engine at Transportation. Product technology efforts in 2003 included continuing development work on the next generation of gas turbines, further advances in state-of-the-art diagnostic imaging technologies, developing reduced emissions and more fuel-efficient locomotives, improving the performance and efficiency of wind energy turbines and continuing development of more fuel-efficient, cost-effective aircraft engine designs. Services technologies include further advances in diagnostic applications, including remote diagnostic capabilities related to repair and maintenance of medical equipment, aircraft engines, power generation equipment and locomotives. Information technology advances in the healthcare field are helping our customers integrate their various devices and critical systems. Process technologies provided improved product quality and performance and increased capacity for manufacturing engineered materials.
GE'S TOTAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated information.
 
 
 
 
 
of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2003 was $31.2 billion, a decrease of 12% from year-end 2002, reflecting softening demand for new equipment in the power generation business at Energy and at Transportation, partially offset by higher backlog at Healthcare. Of the total backlog, $21.2 billion related to products, of which 63% was scheduled for delivery in 2004. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $10.0 billion at the end of 2003. Orders constituting this backlog may be canceled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See Segment Operations beginning on page 49 for further information
GE'S TOTAL BACKLOG
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
 
Accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment.
 
are recognized when they are incurred. Our best estimate of such probable losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral values, and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. Our lending and leasing experience and the extensive data we accumulate and analyze facilitate estimates that have been reliable over time. Our actual loss experience was in line with expectations for 2003, 2002 and 2001. While losses depend to a large degree on future economic conditions, we do not anticipate significant adverse credit development in 2004. Further information is provided in the financing receivables section on page 57, and in notes 1, 12, 13 and, for special purpose entities, in note 29.
LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES
 
to provide product services (product services agreements) requires estimates of profits over the multiple-year terms of such agreements, considering factors such as the frequency and extent of future monitoring, maintenance and overhaul events; the amount of personnel, spare parts and other resources required to perform the services; and future cost changes. We routinely review estimates under product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust for changes in outlook. Revisions that affect a product services agree-ment's total estimated profitability will also result in an immediate adjustment of earnings. We provide for probable losses. We also regularly assess customer credit risk inherent in the carrying amounts of contract costs and estimated earnings. We gain insight into future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through our knowledge of the installed base of equipment and the close interaction with our customers that comes with supplying critical services and parts over extended periods. Carrying amounts for product services agreements in progress at December 31, 2003 and 2002, were $3.2 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, and are included in the line, "Contract costs and estimated earnings" in note 17. Adjustments to earnings resulting from revisions to estimates on product services agreements have been insignificant for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003.
REVENUE RECOGNITION ON LONG-TERM AGREEMENTS
 
assessment involves various estimates and assumptions as follows:
ASSET IMPAIRMENT
 
We regularly review investment securities for impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, our ability to hold to recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security. We perform comprehensive market research and analysis and monitor market conditions to identify potential impairments. Further information about actual and potential impairment losses is provided on page 57 and in note 9.
INVESTMENTS
 
We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the asset's residual value, if any. In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available. We use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value. We derive the required cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate.
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
 
Commercial aircraft are a significant concentration of assets in our Commercial Finance business, and are particularly subject to market fluctuations. Therefore we test recoverability of each aircraft in our operating lease portfolio at least annually. Additionally we perform quarterly evaluations in circumstances such as when aircraft are re-leased, current lease terms have changed or a specific lessee's credit standing changes. Future rentals and residual values are based on historical experience and information received routinely from independent appraisers. Estimated cash flows from future leases are reduced for expected downtime between leases and for estimated technical costs required to prepare aircraft to be redeployed. Fair value used to measure impairment is based on current market values from independent appraisers.
 
We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose of a reporting unit. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective reporting unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow methodology. When available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data.
GOODWILL AND OTHER IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
If this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring its impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this case we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with independent appraisals, as appropriate.
 
We test other identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to amortization by comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair value methodology such as discounted cash flows.
 
Further information is provided on page 58 and in notes 1, 9, 15 and 16.
 
differ for short and long-duration insurance contracts. Short-duration contracts such as property and casualty policies are accounted for based on actuarial estimates of losses inherent in that period's claims, including losses for which claims have not yet been reported. Short-duration contract loss estimates rely on actuarial observations of ultimate loss experience for similar historical events. Measurement of long-duration insurance liabilities (such as guaranteed renewable term, whole life and long-term care insurance policies) also is based on approved actuarial methods that include assumptions about expenses, mortality, morbidity, lapse rates and future yield on related investments. Historical insurance industry experience indicates that a greater degree of inherent variability exists in assessing the ultimate amount of losses under short-duration property and casualty contracts than exists for long-duration mortality exposures. This inherent variability is particularly significant for liability-related exposures, including latent claims issues (such as asbestos and environmental related coverage disputes), because of the extended period of timeoften many yearsthat transpires between when a given claim event occurs and the ultimate full settlement of such claim. This situation is then further exacerbated for reinsurance entities (as opposed to primary insurers) due to coverage often being provided on an "excess-of-loss" basis and the resulting lags in receiving current claims data.
INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND RESERVES
 
We continually evaluate the potential for changes in loss estimates with the support of qualified reserving actuaries and use the results of these evaluations both to adjust recorded reserves and to proactively modify underwriting criteria and product offerings. For actuarial analysis purposes, reported and paid claims activity is segregated into several hundred reserving segments, each having differing historical settlement trends. A variety of actuarial methodologies are then applied to the underlying data for each of these reserving segments in arriving at an estimated range of "reasonably possible" loss scenarios. Factors such as line of business, length of historical settlement pattern, recent changes in underwriting standards and unusual trends in reported claims activity will generally affect which actuarial methodologies are given more weight for purposes of determining the "best estimate" of ultimate losses in a particular reserving segment. As discussed in the insurance section on page 52 and in note 19, reported claims activity at ERC related to prior year loss events, particularly for liability-related exposures underwritten in 1997 through 2001, has performed much worse than we anticipated. This trend was considered in the actuarial reserve study completed in the fourth quarter of 2002, resulting in a significant increase in recorded reserves. Following these actions, we have continued to monitor reported claims volumes
 
relative to our revised expected loss levels. While for the majority of our lines of business, reported claims activity in 2003 was reasonably close to expected amounts, for certain lines of business the reported claims volumes exceeded our revised loss expectations. In response to this new data, we further increased our loss reserves in 2003. ERC continues its comprehensive efforts to apply more rigorous underwriting standards that began in 2002. Actuarial reserve studies and recorded reserves continue to be updated accordingly.
 
Pension benefit obligations and the related effects on operations are calculated using actuarial models. Two critical assumptionsdiscount rate and expected return on assetsare important elements of plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement age, mortality and turnover are evaluated periodically and are updated to reflect our experience. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.
PENSION ASSUMPTIONS
 
The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. We have little latitude in selecting this rate; it is the yield on high-quality fixed income investments at the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. To reflect market interest rate conditions, we reduced our discount rate at December 31, 2003, from 6.75% to 6.0%.
 
To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. We assumed that long-term returns on our pension plans were 8.5% in 2003 and 2002 and 9.5% in 2001.
 
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions follows:
 
 
 
Further information on our principal postretirement benefit plans is provided on page 46 and in notes 5 and 6.
 
are recorded as liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Disclosure is required when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will exceed the recorded provision. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties such as regulators.
OTHER LOSS CONTINGENCIES
 
do not involve the same level of measurement uncertainties as those discussed above, but are nevertheless important to an understanding of the financial statements. Policies related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and business combinations require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. Certain of these matters are among topics currently under reexamination by accounting standard setters and regulators; based on their tentative conclusions, significant changes to GAAP, and therefore to certain of our accounting policies, are possible in the future. Also see note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which discusses accounting policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives.
CERTAIN SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
OTHER INFORMATION
 
New Accounting Standards
 
In December 2003, the FASB modified FIN 46, with FIN 46R, which amended FIN 46 and deferred its application in certain cases. Our adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003, was unchanged by FIN 46R. However, on January 1, 2004, we will adopt FIN 46R, adding approximately $2.5 billion to our total assets and liabilities. No cumulative or significant future effect on our earnings or equity will result from this change.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Financial Measures that Supplement GAAP
 
We sometimes refer to data derived from consolidated financial information but not required by GAAP to be presented in financial statements. Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC regulations. Specifically, we have referred to:
 
 
 
GE CFOA EXCLUDING PROGRESS COLLECTIONS
 
 
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
In the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates" columns on page 70.
 
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
 
 
The sum of accumulated gains/(losses) on investment securities, currency translation adjustments, and derivatives qualifying as hedges constitutes "Accumulated nonowner changes other than earnings," as shown in note 24, and was $2,815 million and $(3,177) million at year-end 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
 
 
In the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates" columns on page 72.
 
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
 
In the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates" columns on page 74.
 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Consolidation
 
Our financial statements consolidate all of our affiliatescompanies that we control and in which we hold a majority voting interest. In 2003, as we describe on page 79, we added certain non-affiliates that we do not control to our consolidated financial statements because of new accounting requirements that require consolidation of entities based on holding qualifying residual interests.
 
Associated companies are companies that we do not control but over which we have significant influence, most often because we hold a shareholder voting position of 20% to 50%. Results of associated companies are presented on a "one-line" basis.
 
Financial statement presentation
 
We have reclassified certain prior-year amounts to conform to this year's presentation.
 
Financial data and related measurements are presented in the following categories:
 
 
 
 
Effects of transactions between related companies are eliminated. Transactions between GE and GECS are immaterial and consist primarily of GECS services for material procurement and trade receivables management, aircraft engines and medical equipment manufactured by GE that are leased by GECS to others, buildings and equipment leased by GE from GECS, and GE investments in GECS commercial paper.
 
Preparing financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Sales of goods and services
 
We record sales of goods when a firm sales agreement is in place, delivery has occurred and collectibility of the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured. If customer acceptance of products is not assured, sales are recorded only upon formal customer acceptance.
 
Sales of goods in the Consumer & Industrial, Advanced Materials and Infrastructure businesses typically do not include multiple product and/or service elements, in contrast with sales in certain of the businesses referred to below. Consumer lighting products and computer hardware and software are often sold with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns when we record the sale.
 
Sales of goods in the Transportation, Healthcare, Energy and certain Infrastructure businesses sometimes include multiple components and sometimes include services such as installation. In such contracts, amounts assigned to each component are based on that component's objectively determined fair value, such as the sales price for the component when it is sold separately or competitor prices for similar components. Sales are recognized individually for delivered components only if undelivered components are not essential to functionality of delivered components, fair values of delivered components have been objectively determined, and the delivered components have value to the customer on a standalone basis. However, when undelivered components are inconsequential or perfunctory and not essential to the functionality of the delivered components (like certain training commitments), we recognize sales on the total contract and make provision for the cost of the incomplete elements.
 
We record sales of product services and certain power generation equipment in accordance with contracts. For long-term product services agreements, we use estimated contract profit rates to record sales as work is performed. For certain power generation equipment, we use estimated contract profit rates to record sales as major components are completed and delivered to customers. Estimates are subject to revisions; revisions that affect an agreement's total estimated profitability result in an immediate adjustment of earnings. We provide for any loss when that loss is probable. We expense costs to acquire or originate sales agreements as incurred.
 
        Sales by NBC are recorded when advertisements are broadcast, with provision made for any shortfalls from viewer commitments ("make goods") based on specific contracts and independent viewer census information.
 
GECS revenues from services (earned income)
 
We use the interest method to recognize income on all loans. Interest on time sales and loans includes origination, commitment and other non-refundable fees related to funding (recorded in earned income on the interest method). Nonearning loans are loans on which we have stopped accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account becomes 90 days past due. We recognize interest income on nonearning loans either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions warrant. We resume accruing interest on nonearning, non-restructured Commercial Finance loans only when (a) payments are brought current according to
 
the loan's original terms and (b) future payments are reasonably assured. When we agree to restructured terms with the borrower, we resume accruing interest only when reasonably assured that we will recover full contractual payments, and pass underwriting reviews equivalent to those to which we subject new loans. We resume accruing interest on nonearning Consumer Finance loans only upon receipt of the third consecutive minimum monthly payment or the equivalent. Specific limits restrict the number of times any particular type of delinquent loan may be categorized as non-delinquent and interest accrual resumed.
 
We record financing lease income on the interest method to produce a level yield on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased assets are based primarily on periodic independent appraisals of the values of leased assets remaining at expiration of the lease terms. Significant assumptions we use in estimating residual values include estimated net cash flows over the remaining lease term, results of future remarketing, and future component part and scrap metal prices, discounted at an appropriate rate.
 
We recognize operating lease income on a straight-line basis over the terms of underlying leases.
 
Fees include commitment fees related to loans that we do not expect to fund and line-of-credit fees. We record these fees in earned income on a straight-line basis over the period to which they relate. We record syndication fees in earned income at the time related services are performed unless significant contingencies exist.
 
See below and page 78 for a discussion of income from investment and insurance activities.
 
Depreciation and amortization
 
The cost of GE manufacturing plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated economic life. U.S. assets are depreciated using an accelerated method based on a sum-of-the-years digits formula; non-U.S. assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
 
The cost of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is amortized on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over the lease term or over the estimated economic life of the equipment. See note 15.
 
Losses on financing receivables
 
Our allowance for losses on financing receivables represents our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Our method of calculating estimated losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related receivables.
 
Our consumer loan portfolio consists of homogeneous card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases and residential mortgages. The allowance for losses on these receivables is based on ongoing statistical analyses of our historical experience adjusted for the effects of economic cycles.
 
Our allowance for losses on our commercial and equipment loan and lease portfolios is based on relevant observable data that include, but are not limited to, historical experience; loan stratification by portfolio and, when applicable, geography; collateral type; credit class or program type; size of the loan balance; and delinquency. In certain commercial loan and lease portfolios, we review all loans based on a number of monitored risk factors other than size, including collateral value, financial performance of the borrower, aging and bankruptcy. We stratify portfolios in which we believe that it is informative to differentiate between small and large balance loans depending on geography and portfolio. For loans deemed individually impaired, we determine allowances using the present values of expected future cash flows. If repossession is expected to be a source of repayment, we estimate the fair value of that collateral using independent appraisals when necessary.
 
Delinquencies are the clearest indication of a developing loss, and we monitor delinquency rates closely in all of our portfolios. Experience is not available with new products; therefore, while we are developing that experience, we set loss allowances based on our experience with the most closely analogous products in our portfolio. When we repossess collateral in satisfaction of a commercial loan, we write the receivable down against the allowance for losses. We transfer the asset to "Other assets" and carry it at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell.
 
Cash and equivalents
 
Debt securities with original maturities of three months or less are included in cash equivalents unless designated as available for sale and classified as investment securities.
 
Investment securities
 
We report investments in debt and marketable equity securities, and equity securities at our insurance affiliates, at fair value based on quoted market prices or, if quoted prices are not available, discounted expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with credit quality and maturity of the investment. Substantially all investment securities are designated as available for sale with unrealized gains and losses included in shareowners' equity, net of applicable taxes and other adjustments. We regularly review investment securities for impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, our ability to hold to recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security. Unrealized losses that are other than temporary are recognized in earnings. Realized gains and losses are accounted for on the specific identification method.
 
Inventories
 
All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable values. Cost for substantially all of GE's U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is determined on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. GECS inventories consist of finished products held for sale. Cost is determined on a FIFO basis.
 
Intangible assets
 
As of January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer amortized but is tested for impairment using a fair value approach, at the "reporting unit" level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below that operating segment (the "component" level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the component level. We recognize an impairment charge for any amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its fair value. We use discounted cash flows to establish fair values. When available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. When a business within a reporting unit is disposed of, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition using the relative fair value methodology.
 
We amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Amortizable intangible assets are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and written down to fair value as required.
 
Before January 1, 2002, we amortized goodwill over its estimated period of benefit on a straight-line basis; we amortized other intangible assets on appropriate bases over their estimated lives. No amortization period exceeded 40 years. When an intangible asset's carrying value exceeded associated expected operating cash flows, we considered it to be impaired and wrote it down to fair value, which we determined based on either discounted future cash flows or appraised values.
 
GECS insurance accounting policies
 
Accounting policies for GECS insurance businesses follow.
 
We report insurance premiums as earned income as follows:
PREMIUM INCOME.
 
 
 
 
represent our best estimate of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those IBNR and the related estimated claim settlement expenses for all claims incurred through December 31 of each year. Specific reservesalso referred to as case reservesare established for reported claims using case-basis evaluations of the underlying claim data and are updated as further information becomes known. IBNR reserves are determined using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods that take into account historical loss experience data and, as appropriate, certain qualitative factors. IBNR reserves are adjusted to take into account certain additional factors that can be expected to affect the liability for claims over time, such as changes in the volume and mix of business written, revisions to contract terms and conditions, changes in legal precedents or developed case law, trends in healthcare and medical costs, and general inflation levels. Settlement of complex claims routinely involves threatened or pending litigation to resolve disputes as to coverage, interpretation of contract terms and conditions or fair compensation for damages suffered. These disputes are settled through negotiation, arbitration or actual litigation. Recorded reserves incorporate our best estimate of the effect that ultimate resolution of such disputes have on both claims payments and related settlement expenses. Liabilities for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses are continually reviewed and adjusted; such adjustments are included in current operations and accounted for as changes in estimates.
LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
 
Costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and investment contracts are deferred and amortized as follows:
DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS.
 
 
 
We review deferred acquisition costs periodically for recoverability considering anticipated investment income.
 
. The actuarially determined present value of anticipated net cash flows to be realized from insurance, annuity and investment contracts in force at the date of acquisition of life insurance policies is recorded as the present value of future profits and is amortized over the respective policy terms in a manner similar to deferred acquisition costs. We adjust unamortized balances to reflect experience and impairment, if any.
PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE PROFITS
 
Accounting changes
 
We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 46, , on July 1, 2003, and consolidated certain entities in our financial statements for the first time. New balance sheet captions, "Consolidated, liquidating securitization entities," included $36.3 billion of assets and $35.8 billion of liabilities at transition related to entities involved in securitization arrangements. Given their unique nature and the fact that their activities have been discontinued, they are classified in separate financial statement captions. Further information about these entities is provided in note 29. In addition, $14.1 billion and $1.0 billion were added to "Investment securities" and "Other GECS receivables," respectively, at transition for investment securities related to guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) issued by Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities. The related GIC liabilities of $14.7 billion, consolidated at transition, are displayed in "Insurance liabilities, reserves and annuity benefits." As issuance of GICs by these entities is likely to continue in the future, we have displayed these investment securities in financial statement captions consistent with like items of our Insurance businesses. Our consolidation of these entities resulted in a $372 million after-tax accounting charge ($0.04 per share) to net earnings and is reported in the caption "Cumulative effect of accounting changes." This charge resulted from several factors. For entities consolidated based on carrying amounts, the effect of changes in interest rates resulted in transition losses on interest rate swaps that did not qualify for hedge accounting before transition. Losses also arose from the FIN 46 requirement to record carrying amounts of assets in certain securitization entities as if those entities had always been consolidated, requiring us to eliminate certain previously recognized gains. For certain other entities that we were required to consolidate at their July 1, 2003, fair values, we recognized a loss on consolidation because their liabilities, including the fair value of interest rate swaps, exceeded independently appraised fair values of the related assets.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 143, , became effective for us on January 1, 2003. Under SFAS 143, obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets are recorded when there is a legal obligation to incur such costs. This amount is accounted for like an additional element of cost, and, like other cost elements, is depreciated over the corresponding asset's useful life. SFAS 143 primarily affects our accounting for costs associated with the future retirement of facilities used for storage and production of nuclear fuel. On January 1, 2003, we recorded a one-time, non-cash transition charge of $330 million ($215 million after tax, or $0.02 per share) which is reported in the caption "Cumulative effect of accounting changes."
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
In 2002, we adopted SFAS 142, , under which goodwill is no longer amortized but is tested for impairment using a fair value methodology. Using the required reporting unit basis, we tested all of our goodwill for impairment as of January 1, 2002, and recorded a non-cash charge of $1.204 billion ($1.015 billion after tax, or $0.10 per share). All of the charge related to Equipment & Other Services. Factors contributing to the impairment charge were the difficult economic environment in the information technology sector and heightened price competition in the auto insurance industry. No impairment charge had been required under our previous goodwill impairment policy, which was based on undiscounted cash flows.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Also in 2002, we adopted the stock option expense provisions of SFAS 123, . A comparison of reported and pro-forma net earnings, including effects of expensing stock options, follows.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
 
 
 
In 2001, we adopted SFAS 133, , as amended. Under SFAS 133, all derivative instruments are recognized in the balance sheet at their fair values. Further information about derivatives and hedging is provided in note 28. The cumulative transition effect of adopting this accounting change at January 1, 2001, was a $324 million ($0.03 per share) reduction of net earnings and $827 million reduction in equity.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
Also in 2001, we adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 99-20. Under this consensus, impairment of certain retained interests in securitized assets must be recognized when (a) the asset's fair value is below its carrying value, and (b) it is probable that there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows. The cumulative effect of adopting EITF 99-20 at January 1, 2001, was a one-time reduction of net earnings of $120 million ($0.01 per share).
 
NOTE 2
GE OTHER INCOME
 
 
For insurance businesses, the effects of reinsurance on premiums written and premiums earned were as follows:
 
 
NOTE 4
SUPPLEMENTAL COST INFORMATION
 
Total expenditures for research and development were $2,656 million, $2,631 million and $2,349 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The portion we funded was $2,103 million in 2003, $2,215 million in 2002 and $1,980 million in 2001.
 
Rental expense under operating leases is shown below.
 
 
At December 31, 2003, minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases aggregated $2,764 million and $4,354 million for GE and GECS, respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow.
 
 
GE's selling, general and administrative expense totaled $9,870 million in 2003, $9,131 million in 2002 and $8,637 million in 2001. Capitalized interest is insignificant in 2003, 2002 and 2001.
 
We recorded restructuring charges of $270 million ($354 million including other related charges) in 2002 to rationalize certain operations and facilities of GE's worldwide industrial businesses. Major elements of these restructuring programs included costs for employee severance, lease termination, dismantlement, and other exit costs. These programs were essentially completed by the end of 2003.
 
NOTE 5
RETIREE HEALTH AND LIFE BENEFITS
 
We sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance benefit plans (retiree benefit plans). Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate.
 
generally provide health and life insurance benefits to employees who retire under the GE Pension Plan (see note 6) with 10 or more years of service. Retirees share in the cost of healthcare benefits. Benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining. These plans cover approximately 250,000 retirees and dependents. Our principal retiree benefit plans have a December 31 measurement date.
PRINCIPAL RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS
 
The effect on operations of principal retiree benefit plans is shown in the following table.
 
EFFECT ON OPERATIONS
 
 
The discount rate at December 31 was used to measure the year-end benefit obligations and the earnings effects for the subsequent year. Actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and earnings effects for principal retiree benefit plans follow.
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS.
 
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS
 
 
 
To determine the expected long-term rate of return on retiree life plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. We apply our expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which reduces the underlying variability in assets to which we apply that expected return.
 
We amortize experience gains and losses, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and plan provisions, over a period no longer than the average future service of employees.
 
for retiree health benefits is generally to pay covered expenses as they are incurred. We fund retiree life insurance benefits at our discretion. Under the provisions of these plans, we expect to contribute approximately $640 million in 2004 to cover unfunded healthcare benefits.
FUNDING POLICY
 
Changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree benefit plans follow.
 
ACCUMULATED POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION (APBO)
 
 
 
Increasing or decreasing the healthcare cost trend rates by one percentage point would have had an insignificant effect on the December 31, 2003, accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and the annual cost of retiree health plans. Our principal retiree benefit plans are collectively bargained and have provisions that limit our per capita costs.
 
Changes in the fair value of assets for retiree benefit plans follow.
 
FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS
 
 
Plan assets are held in trust, as follows:
 
PLAN ASSET ALLOCATION
 
 
 
Plan fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the trust. Long-term strategic investment objectives include preserving the funded status of the trust and balancing risk and return. The plan fiduciaries oversee the investment allocation process, which includes selecting investment managers, setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target range.
 
Trust assets invested in short-term securities must be invested in securities rated A1/P1 or better. GE common stock represented 5.4% and 4.8% of trust assets at year-end 2003 and 2002, respectively, and is subject to a statutory limit when it reaches 10% of total trust assets.
 
Our recorded assets and liabilities for retiree benefit plans are as follows:
 
RETIREE BENEFIT ASSET/(LIABILITY)
 
 
 
The U.S. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 is not expected to have a significant effect on our operations, obligations or cash flows.
 
NOTE 6
PENSION BENEFITS
 
We sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans are discussed below; other such plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate. Principal pension plans constitute about 90% of global pension assets and obligations.
 
are the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan. These plans have a December 31 measurement date.
PRINCIPAL PENSION PLANS
 
The GE Pension Plan provides benefits to certain U.S. employees based on the greater of a formula recognizing career earnings or a formula recognizing length of service and final average earnings. Benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining. The GE Pension Plan covers approximately 508,000 participants, including 136,000 employees, 171,000 former employees with vested rights to future benefits, and 201,000 retirees and beneficiaries receiving benefits.
 
The GE Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing supplementary retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S. employees.
 
Details of the effect on operations of principal pension plans, and the total effect on cost of principal postretirement benefit plans, follow.
 
EFFECT ON OPERATIONS
 
 
 
The discount rate at December 31 was used to measure the year-end benefit obligations and the earnings effects for the subsequent year. Actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and earnings effects for principal pension plans follow.
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS.
 
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS
 
 
To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. We apply our expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which reduces the underlying variability in assets to which we apply that expected return.
 
We amortize experience gains and losses, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and plan provisions, over a period no longer than the average future service of employees.
 
for the GE Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws plus such additional amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. We have not made contributions to the GE Pension Plan since 1987; any such GE contribution would require payment of excise taxes and would not be deductible for income tax purposes. We will not make any contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2004. We expect to pay approximately $100 million for GE Supplementary Pension Plan payments and administrative expenses in 2004.
FUNDING POLICY
 
Accumulated and projected benefit obligations (ABO and PBO) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date with benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO is ABO increased to reflect expected future compensation.
BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS.
 
Changes in the PBO for principal pension plans follow.
 
PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION
 
 
 
ABO balances for principal pension plans follow.
 
ACCUMULATED BENEFIT OBLIGATION
 
 
 
Changes in the fair value of assets for principal pension plans follow.
 
FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS
 
 
The GE Pension Plan's assets are held in trust, as follows:
 
PLAN ASSET ALLOCATION
 
 
Plan fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the GE Pension Trust. Long-term strategic investment objectives include preserving the funded status of the trust and balancing risk and return. The plan fiduciaries oversee the investment allocation process, which includes selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic asset-liability studies, setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target range.
 
Trust assets are invested subject to the following policy restrictions: short-term securities must be rated A1/P1 or better; investments in real estate7% of trust assets at year endmay not exceed 25%; other investments in securities that are not freely tradable11% of trust assets at year endmay not exceed 20%. GE common stock represented 6.3% and 6.0% of trust assets at year-end 2003 and 2002, respectively, and is subject to a statutory limit when it reaches 10% of total trust assets.
 
Our recorded assets and liabilities for principal pension plans are as follows:
 
PREPAID PENSION ASSET/(LIABILITY)
 
 
 
NOTE 7
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
 
GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. The GECS provision for current tax expense includes its effect on the consolidated return.
 
Consolidated current tax expense includes amounts applicable to U.S. federal income taxes of $1,555 million, $137 million and $2,514 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions of $1,304 million, $1,061 million and $1,225 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Consolidated deferred tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes was $685 million, $2,112 million and $1,455 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. See note 21 for details.
 
We have not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and, at December 31, 2003, were approximately $21 billion. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies when we plan to remit those earnings.
 
Consolidated U.S. income before taxes and the cumulative effect of accounting changes was $11.2 billion in 2003, $12.0 billion in 2002 and $13.9 billion in 2001. The corresponding amounts for non-U.S.-based operations were $8.7 billion in 2003, $6.9 billion in 2002 and $5.8 billion in 2001.
 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the actual tax rate is provided below.
 
RECONCILIATION OF U.S. FEDERAL STATUTORY TAX RATE TO ACTUAL TAX RATE
 
 
 
NOTE 8
EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION
 
 
NOTE 9
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
 
The following table presents the gross unrealized losses on, and estimated fair value of, our investment securities, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual investment securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2003.
 
 
Of the $583 million of investment securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve months or more, approximately $355 million relates to securities collateralized by commercial aircraft, of which approximately $288 million are enhanced equipment trust cer-tificates. Commercial aircraft positions are in a loss position as a result of ongoing negative market reaction to commercial airline industry difficulties. We review all of our investment securities routinely for other than temporary impairment as described on page 77. In accordance with that policy, we provide for all amounts that we do not expect either to collect in accordance with the contractual terms of the instruments or to recover based on underlying collateral values.
 
A substantial portion of our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by U.S. residential mortgages.
 
CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF GECS INVESTMENT IN DEBT SECURITIES (EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-BACKED AND ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES)
 
 
We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
 
Supplemental information about gross realized gains and losses on investment securities follows.
 
 
Proceeds from securities sales amounted to $36.4 billion, $46.4 billion and $40.0 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
NOTE 10
GE CURRENT RECEIVABLES
 
 
Receivables balances at December 31, 2003 and 2002, before allowance for losses, included $6,746 million and $6,269 million, respectively, from sales of goods and services to customers, and $226 million and $304 million, respectively, from transactions with associated companies.
 
Current receivables of $444 million at year-end 2003 and $344 million at year-end 2002 arose from sales, principally of aircraft engine goods and services, on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government, which is our largest single customer. About 4% of our sales of goods and services were to the U.S. government in 2003, 2002 and 2001.
 
NOTE 11
INVENTORIES
 
 
LIFO revaluations increased $26 million in 2003, compared with decreases of $70 million in 2002 and $169 million in 2001. Included in the 2003 change was an increase of $3 million that resulted from higher LIFO inventory levels. Included in the 2002 and 2001 changes were decreases of $21 million and $8 million, respectively, that resulted from lower LIFO inventory levels. Net costs increased in 2003 and decreased in 2002 and 2001. As of December 31, 2003, we are obligated to acquire certain raw materials at market prices through the year 2023 under various take-or-pay or similar arrangements. Annual minimum commitments under these arrangements are insignificant.
 
NOTE 12
GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES (INVESTMENTS IN TIME SALES, LOANS AND FINANCING LEASES)
 
 
 
 
GECS financing receivables include both time sales and loans and financing leases. Time sales and loans represents transactions in a variety of forms, including time sales, revolving charge and credit, mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans secured by business assets. The portfolio includes time sales and loans carried at the principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and time sales and loans carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges.
 
Investment in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data processing equipment and medical equipment, as well as other manufacturing, power generation, commercial real estate, and commercial equipment and facilities.
 
As the sole owner of assets under direct financing leases and as the equity participant in leveraged leases, GECS is taxed on total lease payments received and is entitled to tax deductions based on the cost of leased assets and tax deductions for interest paid to third-party participants. GECS is generally entitled to any residual value of leased assets.
 
Investment in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and interest on notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals receivable. The GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share of other participants who also have security interests in the leased equipment.
 
NET INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES
 
 
CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
 
We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities.
 
"Impaired" loans are defined by generally accepted accounting principles as large balance loans for which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. An analysis of impaired loans follows.
 
 
 
 
NOTE 13
GECS ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES
 
 
 
SELECTED FINANCING RECEIVABLES RATIOS
 
 
 
NOTE 14
GECS INSURANCE RECEIVABLES
 
 
NOTE 15
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(INCLUDING EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS)
 
 
 
Amortization of GECS equipment leased to others was $4,224 million, $3,919 million and $3,461 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Noncancelable future rentals due from customers for equipment on operating leases at year-end 2003 follow.
 
 
NOTE 16
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
 
GE intangible assets were net of accumulated amortization of $5,759 million in 2003 and $5,203 million in 2002. GECS intangible assets were net of accumulated amortization of $11,515 million in 2003 and $10,603 million in 2002.
 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION
 
 
 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets were $758 million and $585 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and principally comprise U.S. Federal Communication Commission licenses and cable affiliation agreements.
 
Consolidated amortization expense related to intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for 2003 and 2002 was $1,407 million and $1,999 million, respectively. The estimated percentage of the December 31, 2003, net PVFP balance to be amortized over each of the next five years follows.
 
 
Change in PVFP balances follow.
 
 
 
Recoverability of PVFP is evaluated periodically by comparing the current estimate of expected future gross profits to the unamortized asset balance. If such comparison indicates that the expected gross profits will not be sufficient to recover PVFP, the difference is charged to expense. No such expense was recorded in 2003 or 2002.
 
Amortization expense for PVFP in future periods will be affected by acquisitions, realized capital gains/losses or other factors affecting the ultimate amount of gross profits realized from certain lines of business. Similarly, future amortization expense for other intangibles will depend on acquisition activity and other business transactions.
 
The amount of goodwill amortization included in net earnings (net of income taxes) in 2001 was $499 million and $552 million for GE and GECS, respectively.
 
The effects on earnings and earnings per share of excluding such goodwill amortization from 2001 follow.
 
 
Changes in goodwill balances, net of accumulated amortization, follow.
 
 
 
NOTE 17
 
ALL OTHER ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separate accounts represent investments controlled by policy-holders and are associated with identical amounts reported as insurance liabilities in note 19.
 
NOTE 18
 
BORROWINGS
 
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 
 
 
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
 
 
 
 
 
Our borrowings are addressed below from the perspectives of liquidity, interest rate and currency risk management. Additional information about borrowings and associated swaps can be found in note 28.
 
is affected by debt maturities and our ability to repay or refinance such debt. Long-term debt maturities over the next five years follow.
LIQUIDITY
 
 
 
Committed credit lines totaling $57.2 billion had been extended to us by 85 banks at year-end 2003. Included in this amount was $48.3 billion provided directly to GECS and $8.9 billion provided by 22 banks to GE to which GECS also has access. The GECS lines include $19.9 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. The remaining $37.3 billion are 364-day lines of which $26.9 billion contain a term-out feature that allows GE Capital to extend the borrowings for one year from the date of expiration of the lending agreement. We pay banks for credit facilities, but compensation amounts were insignificant in each of the past three years.
 
is managed through the direct issuance of debt or use of derivatives. We take positions in view of anticipated behavior of assets, including prepayment behavior. We use a variety of instruments, including interest rate and currency swaps and currency forwards, to achieve our interest rate objectives. Effective interest rates were lower under these "synthetic" positions than could have been achieved by issuing debt directly. The following table shows GECS borrowing positions considering the effects of currency and interest rate swaps.
INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY RISK
 
GECS EFFECTIVE BORROWINGS (INCLUDING SWAPS)
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2003, interest rate swap maturities ranged from 2004 to 2048, including swap maturities for hedges of commercial paper that ranged from 2004 to 2024. The use of commercial paper swaps allows us to match our actual asset profile more efficiently and provides more flexibility as it does not depend on investor demand for particular maturities.
 
NOTE 19
 
GECS INSURANCE LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND ANNUITY BENEFITS
 
 
 
 
When insurance affiliates cede insurance to third parties, they are not relieved of their primary obligation to policyholders. Losses on ceded risks give rise to claims for recovery; we establish allowances for probable losses on such receivables from reinsurers as required.
 
We recognize reinsurance recoveries as a reduction of the statement of earnings caption "Insurance losses and policyholder and annuity benefits." Reinsurance recoveries were $1,781 million, $2,234 million and $5,863 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
The insurance liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses related to policies that may cover environmental and asbestos exposures is based on known facts and an assessment of applicable law and coverage litigation. Liabilities are recognized for both known and unasserted claims (including the cost of related litigation) when sufficient information has been developed to indicate that a claim has been incurred and a range of potential losses can be reasonably estimated. Developed case law and adequate claim history do not exist for certain claims, principally due to significant uncertainties as to both the level of ultimate losses that will occur and what portion, if any, will be deemed to be insured amounts.
 
A summary of activity affecting unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, principally in property and casualty lines, follows.
 
 
Claims and expenses incurredprior years represents additional losses (adverse development) recognized in any year for loss events that occurred before the beginning of that year. Adverse development, which amounted to 4%, 18% and 4% of beginning of year loss reserves in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, was primarily encountered at GE Global Insurance Holding.
 
In 2001, we began to experience an acceleration of reported claims activity in certain liability-related coverages, specifically, hospital liability, non-standard auto (automobile insurance extended to higher-risk drivers) and commercial and public entity general liability lines of business, and recognized the increase in projected ultimate losses.
 
During 2002, reported claims activity accelerated dramatically, affecting much of our liability-related insurance written in 1997 through 2001. In connection with our normal actuarial updates, we adjusted our best estimate of ultimate losses to reflect our experience, increasing recorded reserves by $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2002, for a total of $3.5 billion adverse development in ERC for the year.
 
In 2003, we continued to monitor our reported claims activity compared with our revised expected loss levels. In a majority of our lines of business, reported claims activity in 2003 was reasonably close to expected amounts. In a few linesprincipally medical malpractice, product liability and certain director and officer related coveragereported claims volumes exceeded our revised loss expectations. Accordingly, we increased our loss reserves to the newly-indicated ultimate levels in 2003, recording adverse development of $0.9 billion. We will continue to monitor reported claims activity for all lines of business in the future and take necessary reserve actionseither to increase or decrease reservesas our estimates continue to mature.
 
Our mortgage insurance business experienced favorable development during the three-year period, primarily reflecting continued strength in certain real estate markets and the success of our loss containment initiatives.
 
Financial guarantees and credit life risk of insurance affiliates are summarized below.
 
 
Certain insurance affiliates offer insurance guaranteeing the timely payment of scheduled principal and interest on municipal bonds and certain asset-backed securities. Substantially all of this business was conducted by Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC), which we sold in the fourth quarter of 2003. Other insurance affiliates provide insurance to protect residential mortgage lenders from severe financial loss caused by the non-payment of loans and issue credit life insurance designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan is repaid. As part of their overall risk management process, insurance affiliates cede to third parties a portion of their risk associated with these guarantees. In doing so, they are not relieved of their primary obligation to policyholders.
 
NOTE 20
ALL OTHER LIABILITIES
 
This caption includes noncurrent compensation and benefit accruals at year-end 2003 and 2002 of $10,380 million and $8,826 million, respectively. Also included are amounts for deferred income, derivative instruments, interest on tax liabilities, product warranties and a variety of sundry items.
 
We are involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs at each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance recoveries. When there appears to be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the lower end of such range. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure. However, even in the unlikely event that remediation costs amounted to the high end of the range of costs for each site, the resulting additional liability would not be material to our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
NOTE 21
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES
 
Aggregate deferred income tax amounts are summarized below.
 
 
Principal components of our net liability/(asset) representing deferred income tax balances are as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 22
GECS MINORITY INTEREST IN EQUITY OF CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
 
Minority interest in equity of consolidated GECS affiliates includes preferred stock issued by GE Capital and by affiliates of GE Capital. The preferred stock primarily pays cumulative dividends at variable rates. Value of the preferred shares is summarized below.
 
 
Dividend rates in local currency on the preferred stock ranged from 0.91% to 5.65% during 2003 and from 1.44% to 6.20% during 2002.
 
NOTE 23
RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF GECS AFFILIATES
 
Certain GECS consolidated affiliates are restricted from remitting funds to GECS in the form of dividends or loans by a variety of regulations, the purpose of which is to protect affected insurance policyholders, depositors or investors. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, net assets of regulated GECS affiliates amounted to $46.7 billion and $43.7 billion, respectively, of which $37.0 billion and $37.8 billion, respectively, was restricted.
 
At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the aggregate statutory capital and surplus of the insurance businesses totaled $15.9 billion and $17.9 billion, respectively. Accounting practices prescribed by statutory authorities are used in preparing statutory statements.
 
NOTE 24
SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
In December 2001, our Board of Directors increased the authorization to repurchase GE common stock to $30 billion. In 2003 we repurchased 12 million shares for a total of $0.3 billion. Through year-end 2003, 1,103 million shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $23.0 billion had been repurchased under this program and placed in treasury.
 
Common shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following table.
 
SHARES OF GE COMMON STOCK
 
 
GE has 50 million authorized shares of preferred stock ($1.00 par value), but has not issued any such shares as of December 31, 2003.
 
The effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements of non-U.S. affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included in shareowners' equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for the period.
 
NOTE 25
OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION
 
We grant stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units (PSUs) to employees under the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan as described in our current Proxy Statement. In addition, we grant options and RSUs in limited circumstances to consultants, advisors and independent contractors (primarily non-employee talent at NBC) under a plan approved by our Board of Directors in 1997 (the consultants' plan). There are outstanding grants under two separate shareowner approved option plans for non-employee directors; the last grant was made in 2002 and no further grants are expected to be made under these plans. With certain restrictions, requirements for stock option shares may be met from either unissued or treasury shares. RSUs give the recipients the right to receive shares of our stock upon the lapse of their related restrictions. Restrictions on RSUs lapse in various increments and at various dates after three years from date of grant to grantee retirement. Although the plan permits us to issue RSUs settleable in cash, we have only issued RSUs settleable in shares of our stock.
 
We measure the total cost of each stock option grant at the date of grant using a market-based option trading model. We recognize the cost of each stock option, SAR, RSU and PSU straight-line over its vesting period.
 
Stock options and stock-settled SARs expire 10 years from the date they are granted; options and SARs vest over service periods that range from one to five years.
 
All grants of GE options under all plans must be approved by the Management Development and Compensation Committee, which comprises entirely outside directors.
 
STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY
 
 
 
Outstanding options and SARs expire on various dates through December 11, 2013.
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2003.
 
STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
 
 
At year-end 2002, options with an average exercise price of $18.75 were exercisable on 214 million shares; at year-end 2001, options with an average exercise price of $14.73 were exercisable on 209 million shares.
 
 
OPTION VALUE INFORMATION
(a)
 
 
 
NOTE 26
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and dispositions of principal businesses.
 
"Payments for principal businesses purchased" in the Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and includes debt assumed and immediately repaid in acquisitions.
 
"All other operating activities" in the Statement of Cash Flows consists primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and deferrals of costs and expenses, adjustments for gains and losses on assets, increases and decreases in assets held for sale, and adjustments to assets.
 
Non-cash transactions include the following: in 2003, the acquisition of Osmonics, Inc. for GE common stock valued at $240 million; in 2002, the acquisition of Interlogix, Inc. for GE common stock valued at $395 million and the acquisition of Bravo for GE common stock and other investment securities valued at $335 million and $886 million, respectively; and in 2001, the acquisition of Imatron Inc. for GE common stock valued at $205 million.
 
Certain supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown below.
 
 
NOTE 27
OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
REVENUES
 
 
Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. Sales from one company component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices.
 
Revenues originating from operations based in the United States were $84,795 million, $90,954 million and $85,999 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Revenues originating from operations based outside the United States were $49,392 million, $41,256 million and $40,417 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment associated with operations based in the United States were $20,790 million, $19,778 million and $18,557 million at year-end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Property, plant and equipment associated with operations based outside the United States were $32,592 million, $29,295 million and $25,386 million at year-end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Basis for presentation
 
Our operating businesses are organized based on the nature of products and services provided. Segment accounting policies are the same as described in note 1.
 
A description of our operating segments can be found on pages 112-113 and details of segment profit by operating segment can be found on page 48 of this report.
 
NOTE 28
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Derivatives and hedging
 
Exchange rate and interest rate risks are managed with a variety of straightforward techniques, including match funding and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition, we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or floating nature of the assets we are acquiring. We apply strict policies to manage each of these risks, including prohibitions on derivatives trading, derivatives market-making or other speculative activities.
 
To qualify for hedge accounting, the details of the hedging relationship must be formally documented at inception of the arrangement, including the risk management objective, hedging strategy, hedged item, specific risks that are being hedged, the derivative instrument and how effectiveness is being assessed. The derivative must be highly effective in offsetting either changes in fair value or cash flows, as appropriate, for the risk being hedged. Effectiveness is evaluated on a retrospective and prospective basis based on quantitative measures of correlation. If a hedge relationship becomes ineffective, it no longer qualifies as a hedge. Any excess gains or losses attributable to such ineffectiveness, as well as subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative, are recognized in earnings.
 
Cash flow hedges
 
Cash flow hedges are hedges that use simple derivatives to offset the variability of expected future cash flows. Variability can appear in floating rate assets, floating rate liabilities or from certain types of forecasted transactions, and can arise from changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates. For example, GECS often borrows at a variable rate of interest to fund our financial services businesses. If Commercial Finance needs the funds to make a floating rate loan, there is no exposure to interest rate changes, and no hedge is necessary. However, upon making a fixed rate loan, we will contractually commit to pay a fixed rate of interest to a counterparty who will pay us a variable rate of interest (an "interest rate swap"). We then designate this swap as a cash flow hedge of the associated variable rate borrowing. If, as expected, the derivative is perfectly effective in offsetting variable interest in the borrowing, we record changes in its fair value in a separate component in equity, then release those changes to earnings contemporaneously with the earnings effects of the hedged item. Further information about hedge effectiveness is provided on page 105.
 
We use currency forwards and options to manage exposures to changes in currency exchange rates associated with commercial purchase and sale transactions. These instruments permit us to eliminate the cash flow variability, in local currency, of costs or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. In addition, we use these instruments, along with interest rate and currency swaps, to optimize borrowing costs and investment returns. For example, currency swaps and non-functional currency borrowings together provide lower funding costs than could be achieved by issuing debt directly in a given currency.
 
At December 31, 2003, amounts related to derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges amounted to a reduction of equity of $1,792 million, of which we expect to transfer $392 million to earnings in 2004 along with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions. At December 31, 2003, the amount of unrecognized losses related to cash flow hedges of short-term borrowings was $2,242 million. In 2003, there were no forecasted transactions that failed to occur. At December 31, 2003, the maximum term of derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions, other than interest rate swaps designated as hedges of commercial paper (discussed in note 18), was 24 months.
 
Fair value hedges
 
Fair value hedges are hedges that eliminate the risk of changes in the fair values of assets, liabilities and certain types of firm commitments. For example, we will use an interest rate swap in which we receive a fixed rate of interest and pay a variable rate of interest to change the cash flow profile of a fixed rate borrowing to match the variable rate financial asset that it is funding. We record changes in fair value of derivatives designated and effective as fair value hedges in earnings, offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
 
We use interest rate swaps, currency swaps and interest rate and currency forwards to hedge the effect of interest rate and currency exchange rate changes on local and nonfunctional currency denominated fixed-rate borrowings and certain types of fixed-rate assets. Fair value adjustments decreased the carrying amount of debt outstanding at December 31, 2003, by $1,671 million. We use equity options to hedge price changes in investment securities and, at Insurance, equity-indexed annuity liabilities.
 
Net investment hedges
 
Net investment hedges are hedges that use derivative contracts or cash instruments to hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. We manage currency exposures that result from net investments in affiliates principally by funding assets denominated in local currency with debt denominated in that same currency. In certain circumstances, we manage such exposures with currency forwards and currency swaps.
 
Derivatives not designated as hedges
 
We must meet specific criteria in order to apply any of the three forms of hedge accounting. For example, hedge accounting is not permitted for hedged items that are marked to market through earnings. We use derivatives to hedge exposures when it makes economic sense to do so, including circumstances in which the hedging relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting as described in the following paragraph. We also will occasionally receive derivatives, such as equity warrants, in the ordinary course of business. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market through earnings.
 
We use option contracts, including caps, floors and collars, as an economic hedge of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and equity prices on certain types of assets and liabilities. We occasionally obtain equity warrants as part of sourcing or financing transactions. Although these instruments are considered to be derivatives, their economic risk is similar to, and managed on the same basis as, other equity instruments we hold.
 
Earnings effects of derivatives
 
The table that follows provides additional information about the earnings effects of derivatives. In the context of hedging relationships, "effectiveness" refers to the degree to which fair value changes in the hedging instrument offset the corresponding expected earnings effects of the hedged item. Certain elements of hedge positions cannot qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 whether effective or not, and must therefore be marked to market through earnings. Time value of purchased options is the most common example of such elements in instruments we use. Pre-tax earnings effects of such items are shown in the following table as "Amounts excluded from the measure of effectiveness."
 
 
Counterparty credit risk
 
The risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will default and not make payments to us according to the terms of the agreements is counterparty credit risk. We manage counterparty credit risk on an individual counterparty basis, which means that we net exposures on transactions by counterparty where legal right of offset exists to determine the amount of exposure to each counterparty. When a counterparty exceeds credit exposure limits (see table below), as measured by current market value of the derivative contract, no additional transactions are permitted to be executed until the exposure with that counterparty is reduced to an amount that is within the established limits. Swaps are required to be executed under master agreements containing mutual credit downgrade provisions that provide the ability to require assignment or termination in the event either party is downgraded below A3 or A-.
 
To further mitigate credit risk, in certain cases we have entered into collateral arrangements that provide us with the right to hold collateral when the current market value of derivative contracts exceeds an exposure threshold. Under these arrangements, we may receive U.S. Treasury and other highly-rated securities or cash to secure our exposure to counterparties; such collateral is available to us in the event that a counterparty defaults. From an economic standpoint, we evaluate credit risk exposures and compliance with credit exposure limits net of such collateral. If the downgrade provisions had been triggered at December 31, 2003, we could have been required to disburse up to $3.8 billion and could have claimed $2.4 billion from counterparties (including $1.3 billion of collateral that has been pledged to us).
 
Fair values of our derivative assets and liabilities represent the replacement value of existing derivatives at market prices and can change significantly from period to period based on, among other factors, market movements and changes in our positions. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, gross fair value gains amounted to $5.5 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, gross fair value losses amounted to $6.9 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.
 
The following tables illustrate our policy relating to exposure limits to counterparties.
 
COUNTERPARTY CREDIT CRITERIA
 
 
 
EXPOSURE LIMITS
 
 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assets and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at fair value are not included in the above disclosures; such items include cash and equivalents, investment securities, separate accounts and derivative financial instruments. Other assets and liabilitiesthose not carried at fair valueare discussed below. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their fair values must often be determined using models. Although we have made every effort to represent accurate fair values in this section, it would be unusual if the estimates could actually have been realized at December 31, 2003 or 2002.
 
A description of how we estimate fair values follows.
 
Time sales and loans
 
Based on quoted market prices, recent transactions and/or discounted future cash flows, using rates at which similar loans would have been made to similar borrowers.
 
Borrowings
 
Based on discounted future cash flows using current market rates which are comparable to market quotes.
 
Investment contract benefits
 
Based on expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered discount rates for immediate annuity contracts or cash surrender values for single premium deferred annuities.
 
All other instruments
 
Based on comparable market transactions, discounted future cash flows, quoted market prices, and/or estimates of the cost to terminate or otherwise settle obligations.
 
NOTE 29
SECURITIZATION ENTITIES
 
We securitize financial assets in the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns. The securitization transactions we engage in are similar to those used by many financial institutions. Beyond improving returns, these securitization transactions serve as funding sources for a variety of diversified lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both supported and third-party entities to execute securitization transactions funded in the commercial paper and term bond markets.
 
The following table represents assets in securitization entities both consolidated and off-balance sheet.
 
 
 
Securitized assets that are on-balance sheet were consolidated on July 1, 2003, upon adoption of FIN 46, . Although we do not control these entities, consolidation was required because we provided a majority of the credit and liquidity support for their activities. A majority of these entities were established to issue asset-backed securities, using assets that were sold by us and by third parties. These entities differ from others included in our consolidated statements because the assets they hold are legally isolated and are unavailable to us under any circumstances. Use of the assets is restricted by terms of governing documents, and their liabilities are not our legal obligations. Repayment of their liabilities depends primarily on cash flows generated by their assets. Because we have ceased transferring assets to these entities, balances will decrease as the assets repay. Given their unique nature the entities are classified in separate financial statement captions, "Consolidated, liquidating securitization entities."
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
We continue to engage in off-balance sheet securitization transactions with third-party entities and to use public market, term securitizations. Further information about these activities is provided on page 108.
 
On-balance sheet arrangements
 
The following tables summarize the revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with consolidated securitization entities.
 
 
 
 
 
The portfolio of financing receivables consists of loans and financ-ing lease receivables secured by equipment, commercial real estate and other assets; credit card receivables; and trade receivables. Examples of these assets include loans and leases on manufacturing and transportation equipment, loans on commercial property, commercial loans, and balances of high credit quality accounts from sales of a broad range of products and services to a diversified customer base. Under terms of credit and liquidity support agreements with these entities, when predefined triggers are met related to asset credit quality or a put is exercised by beneficial interest holders, we may be required to repurchase financing receivables. Upon such repurchases, the underlying receivable is classified as "Financing receivables" (disclosed in note 12).
 
"Financing receivables" includes $3,827 million of direct financing leases, an analysis of which follows.
 
 
A schedule of changes in the financing receivables balance since we adopted FIN 46 follows.
 
 
Although we expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities, the following table summarizes the contractual maturities of financing receivables in our consolidated securitization entities.
 
CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
 
 
 
 
Derivatives included in consolidated securitization entities consist principally of pay fixed, receive variable interest rate swaps. These swaps are designated, and effective, as hedges of fixed rate assets (fair value hedges) or variable rate liabilities (cash flow hedges). Risk management objectives are consistent with those described in note 28. Ineffectiveness recognized on fair value hedges was zero; ineffectiveness recognized on cash flow hedges was insignificant. No amounts were excluded from the measure of ineffectiveness of either fair value or cash flow hedges.
 
Off-balance sheet arrangements
 
As discussed on page 107, assets in off-balance sheet securitization entities amounted to $26.8 billion and $54.9 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
Additional information about securitization transactions follows.
 
 
Amounts recognized in our financial statements related to sales to off-balance sheet securitization entities are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes data related to securitization sales that we completed during 2003.
 
 
 
Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests in securitizations and the sensitivity of the current fair value of residual cash flows to changes in those assumptions are noted in the following table. These assumptions may differ from those in the previous table as these relate to all outstanding retained interests as of December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
We provide protection to certain counterparties of interest rate swaps entered into by securitization-related entities related to changes in the relationship between commercial paper interest rates and the timing and amount of the payment streams. These arrangements provide protection for the life of the assets held by the SPE but generally amortize in proportion to the decline in underlying asset principal balances. The notional amount of such support is $0.3 billion; fair value of the related assets was $1 million at year-end 2003.
GUARANTEE AND REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS.
 
NOTE 30
COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES
 
Commitments
 
In our Transportation business, we have committed to provide financial assistance on future sales of aircraft equipped with our engines, totaling $1.2 billion at year-end 2003. In addition, our Commercial Finance business had placed multiple-year orders for various Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $13.5 billion at year-end 2003.
 
At year-end 2003, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements beyond those provided on behalf of SPEs (see note 29):
 
 
 
 
 
At year-end 2003, we had $8,084 million of commitments to acquire broadcast material and the rights to broadcast television programs, including U.S. television rights to future Olympic Games, and commitments under long-term television station affil-iation agreements that require payments through 2012.
 
Our guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these guarantees considering economic, liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty. We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We record liabilities, as disclosed above, for such guarantees based on our best estimate of probable losses, which considers amounts recoverable under recourse provisions. For example, at year-end 2003, the total fair value of aircraft securing our airline industry guarantees exceeded the guaranteed amounts, net of the associated allowance for losses.
 
Product warranties
 
We provide for estimated product warranty expenses when we sell the related products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best available informationmostly historical claims experienceclaims costs may differ from amounts provided. An analysis of changes in the liability for product warranties follows.
 
 
(a)
Primarily related to Energy.
(b)
Primarily related to acquisitions at Energy.
 
NOTE 31
QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 
 
For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods and services sold.
 
Fourth quarter earnings in 2002 included an after-tax charge of $1,386 million ($0.14 per share) to record adverse development at Insurance.
 
Earnings-per-share amounts for each quarter are required to be computed independently. As a result, their sum does not equal the total year basic earnings per share after accounting changes in 2003.
 
NOTE 32
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
We announced in November 2003 our intent for an initial public offering (IPO) of a new company, Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), comprising most of our life and mortgage insurance businesses. We plan to sell approximately one-third of Genworth's equity in the IPO, and we expect (subject to market conditions) to reduce our ownership over the next three years as Genworth transitions to full independence. We commenced the IPO process in January 2004 and expect to complete the IPO in the first half of the year, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
 
On January 14, 2004, Commercial Finance acquired most of the commercial lending business of Transamerica Finance Corporation. This acquisition of approximately $8.5 billion in managed assets expands our distribution finance business and enhances our leasing and commercial loan financing in equipment, real estate and international structured finance.
 
 
OUR BUSINESSES
 
A description of operating segments for General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 2003, and the basis for presentation in this report, follows.
 
Advanced Materials
 
High-performance engineered plastics used in a variety of applications such as automotive parts, computer enclosures, telecommunication equipment and construction materials. Products also include structured products, silicones and high-purity quartzware. Products and services are sold worldwide to a diverse customer base consisting mainly of manufacturers.
 
Commercial Finance
 
Loans, leases, and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial and energy-related facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles; aircraft; and equipment used in many industries including the construction, manufacturing, telecommunications, and healthcare industries.
 
Consumer Finance
 
Card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases, and residential mortgages for customers on a global basis.
 
Consumer & Industrial
 
Major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system products. Distributed to both retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps, lighting fixtures and wiring devices. Electrical distribution and control equipment includes power delivery and control products such as transformers, meters, relays, capacitors and arresters. Also includes GE Supply, a network of electrical supply houses. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private-label brands.
 
Energy
 
Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and contractual services are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions including wind turbines and hydro turbines and generators. Advanced turbomachinery products and related services for the oil and gas market, including total pipeline integrity solutions. Substation automation and network solutions sold to power transmission and distribution customers. Also includes portable and rental power plants, nuclear reactors, fuel and nuclear support services.
 
Equipment & Other Services
 
Rentals, leases, sales, asset management services and loans for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including tractors, trailers, railroad rolling stock, modular space units, inter-modal shipping containers, computer networks, marine containers and autos. Also included in the segment are activities and businesses that are not measured within one of the other financial services segmentsfor example corporate expenses, liquidating businesses and other non-segment aligned operations, including GE Equity, the consolidation of certain entities in our financial statements as a result of our July 1, 2003, adoption of FIN 46; and the U.S. Auto and Home business, which was sold in the third quarter of 2003.
 
Healthcare
 
Medical imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear imaging and ultrasound, as well as diagnostic cardiology and patient monitoring devices; related services, including equipment monitoring and repair, computerized data management and customer productivity services. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals and medical facilities.
 
Infrastructure
 
Chemical water treatment program services and equipment; measurement and sensing equipment (products and subsystems for sensing temperatures, humidity and pressure); security equipment and systems (including card access systems, video and sensor monitoring equipment, integrated facility monitoring systems and explosive detection systems); a broad range of automation hardware and software. Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities; original equipment manufacturers; electrical distributors; retail outlets; railways; and transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in global markets.
 
Insurance
 
U.S. and international multiple-line property and casualty reinsurance, certain directly written specialty insurance and life reinsurance, consumer investment, insurance and retirement services, private mortgage insurance and, before its sale in the fourth quarter of 2003, financial guaranty insurance, principally on municipal bonds and asset-backed securities.
 
NBC
 
Principal businesses are the furnishing of U.S. network television services to more than 230 affiliated stations, production of television programs, operation of 29 VHF and UHF television broadcasting stations, operation of four cable/satellite networks around the world, and investment and programming activities in the Internet, multimedia and cable television.
 
Transportation
 
Jet engines and replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft (short/medium, intermediate and long-range); for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Also includes aircraft engine derivatives used as marine propulsion and industrial power sources; the latter is also reported in Energy. Rail systems products and maintenance services including diesel and electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles, and railway signaling communications systems.
 
GLOSSARY
 
An adjustment to increase (adverse development) or reduce (favorable development) the provision for estimated ultimate insurance losses in a year following the year in which the loss occurred.
ADVERSE OR FAVORABLE DEVELOPMENT
 
Unfilled customer orders for products and product services (12 months for product services).
BACKLOG
 
Financial liability (short or long-term) that obliges us to repay cash or another financial asset to another entity.
BORROWING
 
Highly liquid debt instruments with maturities of less than three months, such as commercial paper. Typically included with cash for reporting purposes, unless designated as available for sale and included with investment securities.
CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
Qualifying derivative instruments that we use to protect ourselves against exposure to volatility in future cash flows. The exposure may be associated with an existing asset or liability, or with a forecasted transaction. See "Hedge."
CASH FLOW HEDGES
 
Unsecured, unregistered promise to repay borrowed funds in a specified period ranging from overnight to 270 days.
COMMERCIAL PAPER
 
(also referred to as "product services agreements") Contractual commitments, with multiple-year terms, to provide specified services for products in our industrial installed basefor example, monitoring, maintenance, overhaul and spare parts for a gas turbine/generator set installed in a customer's power plant.
CUSTOMER SERVICE AGREEMENTS
 
A financial instrument or contract with another party (counterparty) that is structured to meet any of a variety of financial objectives, including those related to fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Options, forwards and swaps are the most common derivative instruments we employ. See "Hedge."
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENT
 
Amounts charged to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of an insurance/reinsurance contract.
DIRECT WRITTEN PREMIUMS
 
Portion of the premium, net of any amount ceded, pertaining to the segment of the policy period for which insurance coverage has been provided.
EARNED PREMIUMS
 
Provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and accounting changes. Does not represent cash paid for income taxes in the current accounting period.
EFFECTIVE TAX RATE
 
Rental equipment we own that is available to rent and is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS
 
Qualifying derivative instruments that we use to eliminate the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or certain types of firm commitments. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments that are designated and effective as fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, but are offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged items. See "Hedge."
FAIR VALUE HEDGE
 
The relationship of debt to equity. Expressed for financial services businesses as borrowings divided by equity. Expressed for industrial businesses as borrowings divided by total capital.
FINANCIAL LEVERAGE
 
Investment in contractual loans and leases due from customers (not investment securities).
FINANCING RECEIVABLES
 
Fixed price contract for purchase or sale of a specified quantity of a commodity, security, currency or other financial instrument with delivery and settlement at a specified future date. Commonly used as a hedging tool. See "Hedge."
FORWARD CONTRACT
 
The premium paid for acquisition of a business. Calculated as the purchase price less the fair value of net assets acquired (net assets are identified tangible and intangible assets, less liabilities assumed).
GOODWILL
 
Deposit-type products that guarantee a minimum rate of return, which may be fixed or floating.
GUARANTEED INVESTMENT CONTRACTS (GICs)
 
A technique designed to eliminate risk. Often refers to the use of derivative financial instruments to offset changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices, although many business positions are "naturally hedged"for example, funding a U.S. fixed rate investment with U.S. fixed rate borrowings is a natural interest rate hedge.
HEDGE
 
Receivables of our insurance businesses associated with (1) reinsurance agreements in which those businesses legally transferred (ceded) insurance losses (and related premiums) to reinsurers and are entitled to recovery of those insurance losses; (2) premiums on insurance and reinsurance contracts; (3) policy loans to policyholders of certain life insurance contracts; and (4) premium funds on deposit with reinsurance customers as collateral for our obligations as a reinsurer.
INSURANCE RECEIVABLES
 
A non-financial asset lacking physical substance, such as goodwill, patents, trademarks and licenses. Also includes present value of future profits, which are anticipated net discounted cash flows to be realized from certain in-force insurance, annuity and investment contracts at the date we acquire a life insurance business.
INTANGIBLE ASSET
 
Agreement under which two counterparties agree to exchange one type of interest rate cash flow for another. In a typical arrangement, one party periodically will pay a fixed amount of interest, in exchange for which that party will receive variable payments computed using a published index. See "Hedge."
INTEREST RATE SWAP
 
Generally, an instrument that provides an ownership position in a corporation (a stock), a creditor relationship with a corporation or governmental body (a bond), or rights to ownership such as those represented by options, subscription rights and subscription warrants.
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
Total receivable amounts on which we continue to perform billing and collection activities, including receivables that have been sold with and without credit recourse.
MANAGED RECEIVABLES
 
A risk control policy that provides funds for a particular financial asset having the same currency, maturity and interest rate characteristics as that asset. Match funding ensures that we maintain initial financing spreads or margins for the life of a financial asset, and is executed directly, by issuing debt, or synthetically, through a combination of debt and derivative financial instruments. For example, when we lend at a fixed interest rate in the U.S., we can borrow those U.S. dollars either at a fixed rate of interest or at a floating rate executed concurrently with a pay-fixed interest rate swap. See "Hedge."
MATCH FUNDING
 
Sale of financial assets to a third party for cash. For example, we sell certain loans, credit card receivables and trade receivables to third-party financial buyers, typically providing at least some credit protection and often agreeing to provide collection and processing services for a fee. Monetization normally results in gains on interest-bearing assets and losses on non-interest bearing assets.
MONETIZATION
 
For our lending and leasing businesses, revenues from services less interest and other financial charges.
NET REVENUES
 
Sales of goods and services less the sum of cost of goods and services sold plus selling, general and administrative expenses. Operating margin is often expressed as a percentage of salesthe operating margin rate.
OPERATING MARGIN
 
Earnings before interest and other financial charges, income taxes and effects of accounting changes.
OPERATING PROFIT
 
The right, not the obligation, to execute a transaction at a designated price, generally involving equity interests, interest rates, currencies or commodities. See "Hedge."
OPTION
 
Rate that is charged under insurance/reinsurance contracts.
PREMIUM
 
See "Intangible Asset."
PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE PROFITS
 
For purposes of the financial statement display of sales and costs of sales on pages 70 and 71, "goods" is required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations to include all sales of tangible products, and "services" must include all other sales, including broadcasting and other services activities. We refer to sales of both spare parts (goods) and related services as sales of "product services," which is an important part of our operations.
PRODUCT SERVICES
 
See "Customer Service Agreements."
PRODUCT SERVICES AGREEMENTS
 
The rate of increased output for a given level of input, with both output and input measured in constant currency. A decline in output for a given level of input is "negative" productivity.
PRODUCTIVITY
 
Payments received from customers as deposits before the associated work is performed or product is delivered.
PROGRESS COLLECTIONS
 
A form of insurance that insurance companies buy for their own protection.
REINSURANCE
 
Contract to acquire third-party insurance protection for reinsurance policies written. Retrocession is a risk mitigation technique.
RETROCESSION AGREEMENT
 
Earnings before accounting changes divided by average total equity (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average).
RETURN ON AVERAGE SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
 
Earnings before accounting changes plus the sum of after-tax interest and other financial charges and minority interest, divided by the sum of total equity, borrowings and minority interest (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average).
RETURN ON AVERAGE TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTED
 
A process whereby loans or other receivables are packaged, underwritten and sold to investors. In some instances, the assets sold are first transferred to an unconsolidated SPE. These entities are structured to be bankruptcy remote in order to isolate the credit risk of the assets from the overall credit risk of the selling entity. Outside investors, usually institutions, typically purchase a debt instrument issued by the SPE. Whether or not credit risk associated with the securitized assets is retained by the seller depends on the structure of the securitization. See "Monetization."
SECURITIZATION
 
Investments controlled by policyholders and associated with identical amounts reported as insurance liabilities.
SEPARATE ACCOUNT
 
Broadly based on the number of times that working capital is replaced during a year. Accounts receivable turnover is total sales divided by the five-point average balance of customer receivables from sales of goods and services (trade receivables). Inventory turnover is total sales divided by a five-point average balance of inventories. See "Working Capital."
TURNOVER
 
Portion of the premium received, net of any amount ceded, that relates to future coverage periods.
UNEARNED PREMIUMS
 
Claims reserves for events that have occurred, including both reported and incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) reserves, and the expenses of settling such claims.
UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
 
Entity defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, and that must be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. A variable interest entity has one or both of the following characteristics: (1) its equity at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) as a group, the equity investors lack one or more of the following characteristics: (a) direct/indirect ability to make decisions, (b) obligation to absorb expected losses, or (c) right to receive expected residual returns.
VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITY
 
Sum of receivables from the sales of goods and services, plus inventories, less trade accounts payables and progress collections.
WORKING CAPITAL
 


