FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050121075430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On January 21, 2005, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GE's fourth-quarter and full year 2004 earnings. A copy of GE's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99 Press release, dated: January 21, 2005, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

PRESS RELEASE
 
GE Delivers Record Financial Performance in Fourth Quarter 2004, With 18% Revenue Growth, 18% Earnings Growth and $.51 EPS;
Full-Year Cash Flow Increases 18% to $15.2 Billion
 
-- GE achieved record fourth-quarter revenues of $43.7 billion, up 18% from fourth quarter 2003, and record fourth-quarter earnings of $5.4 billion, also up 18%, the company announced today. Full-year 2004 earnings were $16.6 billion, up 6% from 2003 earnings before required accounting changes. Cash flow from GE's operating activities (CFOA) in 2004 increased 18% to $15.2 billion.
Fairfield, Conn., January 21, 2005
 
"GE had a tremendous fourth quarter and an excellent 2004, as we completed our strategic repositioning and returned to double-digit earnings growth in the quarter," said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
 
"In the fourth quarter, nine of our 11 businesses delivered double-digit earnings growth. Industrial sales grew 19%, and our key financial services businesses ended the year with assets up 20% and improved overall portfolio quality. Total orders for the quarter increased 15% over last year, with growth across the board. We are benefiting from strong execution of our growth initiatives and an excellent global economy.
 
"For the year, nine of our 11 businesses delivered at least double-digit earnings growth and we increased CFOA to $15.2 billion. We made major progress on our portfolio, exceeding our synergy goals for the Amersham and Universal acquisitions, adding capabilities to our water, security and key financial services units, and executing several dispositions, including the initial public offering of Genworth and the sale of 60% of Gecis, our global business processing operation. Revenues from our growth initiatives -- in services and our new platforms, such as security and water -- grew 12% and 17% respectively, and global revenues increased 16%.
 
"As a result, we're going into 2005 with excellent momentum," Immelt said. "We are very confident about achieving 10-15% earnings growth with strong cash flow growth and sustaining this growth into 2006 as well."
 
GE will discuss preliminary fourth-quarter and full-year results on a conference call and Webcast to be held at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Call information is available at , and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
www.ge.com/investor
Highlights of preliminary fourth-quarter and full-year 2004 results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"GE is in great shape," Immelt said. "We've got great businesses positioned in the right markets with very strong teams driving powerful initiatives. With a great pipeline of technology, billions in contractual services agreements, a rigorous focus on customers and the ability to deliver all of this globally, we are now focused on driving strong organic growth and delivering consistent double-digit growth in earnings and cash flow, with expanding returns on capital.
"This is a great time for GE."
Fourth Quarter 2004 Business Highlights
 
Transportation
Healthcare
 
Energy
 
 
Commercial Finance
Consumer Finance
 
  
 
NBC Universal
Infrastructure
Advanced Materials
Con
sumer & Industrial
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified technology, media and financial services company dedicated to creating products that make life better. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, television programming, and plastics, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties arise from the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices, from future integration of acquired businesses, from future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation and healthcare industries, from unanticipated los s development in our insurance businesses, and from numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield
David Frail, 203/373.3387
 
david.frail@ge.com
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2003 Annual Report to Shareowners for further information about consolidation matters.
 
Summary of Operating Segments (unaudited)
General Electric Company and Consolidated Affiliates
 
Condensed Statement of Financial Position
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
 
 
December 31, 2004 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2003 Annual Report to Shareowners for further information about consolidation matters.
 
Financial Measures That Supplement GAAP
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
 
We sometimes refer to data derived from consolidated financial information but not required by GAAP to be presented in financial statements. Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC regulations. Specifically, we have referred to the increase in Industrial CFOA in 2004. Reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure - cash from operating activities - follows.
 
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to compare our cash flow from operating activities for 2004 against 2003 without the impact of GECS dividends, which included proceeds from the Genworth initial public offering in 2004 and other business dispositions in 2004 and 2003.
 
 


