FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050715081842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 15, 2005, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs second-quarter 2005 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99
 
Press release, dated: July 15, 2005, issued by General Electric Company
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(3)
 

 
Exhibit 99
PRESS RELEASE
GE Delivers Record Second Quarter 2005 Financial Results
Fairfield, Conn., July 15, 2005
-- GE achieved record second-quarter earnings of $4.6 billion, 24% higher than second quarter 2004, on 13% growth in revenues to $41.6 billion, the Company announced today. First-half cash flow from operating activities (CFOA) of $8.0 billion rose 18%, with CFOA of GEs industrial businesses up 24%.
GE continued its strong performance in the second quarter, said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Our improved business fundamentals and solid execution resulted in all of our businesses delivering at least double-digit earnings growth, Immelt said. Total orders for the quarter were up 13% over second quarter 2004, and our backlog for major equipment orders grew 15% to $23 billion. Organic growth for the quarter was on target at 8%, and revenues from our growth initiatives in services and our new platforms grew 10% and 23%, respectively. In addition, global revenues increased 20%. As a result, we are further narrowing our EPS outlook to the high end of our original guidance for the full year and now expect to deliver $1.80-$1.83, up 12-14%.
We have aggressively executed a strategy to expand our margins and sustain our earnings growth for the long term, Immelt said. Our focus on technical innovation is enabling us to bring to market advanced new products such as the H System turbine, coal gasification, the GEnx jet engine, the GE Evolution locomotive, and water desalination systems just as we are entering a period of expanding global infrastructure development. These long-lived products allow us to offer high-margin, multi-year service agreements that will add substantially to our current services backlog of more than $83 billion. We are also launching high-margin Healthcare, Security and Consumer & Industrial products that can expand our share position. Our simplification efforts will lower costs, generate cash for investment in future growth, and make it easier for customers to do business with us. These core initiatives position us to achieve consistent double-digit earnings growth with expanding returns on capital in 2005 and beyond.
GE will discuss preliminary second-quarter results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. EDT today. Call information is available at www.ge.com/investor, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
Second Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
As of July 5, 2005, GEs 11 businesses were reorganized into six businesses. Second-quarter results in this press release are reported according to the 11-business organization that was in effect during the period. The Company will provide historical results on the new six-business basis in September.
GE is in tremendous shape, Immelt said. GE is a strong and consistent growth company with expanding returns and strong cash flow. We are in the right businesses, benefiting from above-average market growth, and we are now organized to serve our customers with a deep and focused team. Im very proud of our teams performance. We are confident in our ability to deliver sustainable growth for our investors.
Second Quarter 2005 Business Highlights
Transportation
Energy
Healthcare
Infrastructure
Commercial Finance
Consumer Finance
 
NBC Universal
Advanced Materials
Consumer & Industrial
Equipment and Other Services
Insurance
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
2005 results are preliminary and quarterly information is unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties arise from the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices, from future integration of acquired businesses, from future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries, from unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses, and from numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield
David Frail, 203/373.3387
 
david.frail@ge.com
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
Summary of Operating Segments (unaudited)
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
 
 
Condensed Statement of Financial Position
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
June 30, 2005 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
Financial Measures That Supplement GAAP
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended June 30, 2005, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2004, and the increase in cash from operating activities from our industrial businesses (or Industrial CFOA) for the six months ended June 30, 2005, compared with the six months ended June, 30 2004. We also referred to earnings per share growth excluding a previously announced SFAS 133 - related correction to second quarter 2004. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures - revenues and cash from operating activities - follow.
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our second quarter 2005 revenue growth without the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange rates, and without the effect of our Insurance segment, whose revenues were adversely affected by the changing economic environment and other factors in the second quarter of 2004. Similarly, we believe that investors would find it useful to compare our operating cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2005, to the operating cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2004, without the impact of GECS dividends, which can vary from period-to-period. On May 6, 2005, GE filed amended financial statements for certain prior years and interim periods, including second quarter 2004, to reflect corrections in its accounting for derivatives under SFAS 133. The correction had the effect of reducing second quarter 2004 EPS from $.38 per share to $.36 per share. We are providing the EPS comparison to the pre-correction basis because we believe this reconciliation provides investors with a better understanding of the second quarter 2005 earnings per share variance.


