FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050621150149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
The Management Development and Compensation Committee of General Electric Companys Board of Directors has been reviewing and considering changes to its policy with respect to the personal use of corporate aircraft by executives for several months. Based on its review, the Committee decided this month to modify its policy to require any Vice Chairman to lease corporate aircraft for any personal use in excess of $200,000 per year. Prior to this modification, Vice Chairmen could use corporate aircraft for personal use without lease requirements.
 
Any such lease will be pursuant to an aircraft time sharing agreement, and the amount of the expenses of each flight to be paid by any Vice Chairman under such agreement will be the maximum established under Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules.
 
In connection with this policy, on June 15, 2005, the General Electric Company and Dennis D. Dammerman, Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Officer of the Company, entered into an aircraft time sharing agreement pursuant to which Mr. Dammerman may lease the aircraft from the Company for his personal use. Mr. Dammerman will pay the Company for the actual expenses of each specific flight to the maximum extent permitted under FAA rules, which expenses include and are limited to: (a) fuel, oil, lubricants and other additives; (b) travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging and ground transportation; (c) hangar and tie down costs away from the aircrafts base of operation; (d) insurance obtained for the specific flight; (e) landing fees, airport taxes and similar assessments; (f) customs, foreign permit and similar fees directly related to the flight; (g) in-flight food and beverages; (h) passenger ground transportation; (i) flight planning and weather contract services; and (j) an additional charge equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the expenses listed in clause (a) above.
 
The Company and flight crew retain the authority to determine what flights may be scheduled and when a flight may be cancelled or changed for safety or maintenance reasons.
 
This agreement will terminate on the earlier of (a) termination by mutual consent, (b) the date of Mr. Dammermans retirement from the Company or (c) the date of Mr. Dammermans death.
 
A copy of the aircraft time sharing agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(3)

Exhibit 10
THIS TIME SHARING AGREEMENT
(this Agreement) is entered into on
June 15, 2005 by General Electric Company (Owner), a New York corporation, with principal offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT and Dennis D. Dammerman (Lessee).
A.
Owner is the registered owner of certain civil aircraft bearing the United States Registration Numbers and of the types set forth on Exhibit A to this Agreement (collectively, the Aircraft or individually an Aircraft).
B.
Owner employs fully qualified flight crews to operate the Aircraft; and
C.
From time to time, Lessee may desire to lease the Aircraft and flight crews from owner for Lessees personal travel at Lessees discretion on a time sharing basis as defined in Section 91.501(c)(1) of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR).
NOW, THEREFORE,
Owner and Lessee agree as follows:
1.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Owner agrees to lease the Aircraft to Lessee for Lessees personal travel at Lessees discretion pursuant to the provisions of FAR Section 91.501(c)(1) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations for flights scheduled in accordance with the terms of this Agreement during the period, commencing on the date of this Agreement and terminating on the earlier of (a) the termination of this Agreement by consent of Owner and Lessee, (b) the date of Lessees termination of employment with Owner and (c) the date of Lessees death. Owner shall have the right to add or substitute aircraft of similar type, quality, and equipment, and to remove aircraft from the fleet, from time to time during the term of this Agreement. Owner shall send Lessee a revised Exhibit A upon each such change in the Aircraft.
2.
 
Lessee shall pay Owner for each flight conducted under this Agreement the actual expenses of each specific flight as authorized by FAR Section 91.501(d) as in effect from time to time. On the date of this Agreement these expenses include and are limited to:
(1)
3.
 
Owner will pay all expenses related to the operation of each Aircraft when incurred and will provide monthly invoices to Lessee for the expenses enumerated in Section 2 above. Lessee shall pay Owner for these expenses within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the related invoice.
4.
 
In the event that Lessee desires to use the Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement, Lessee will so notify Owner and will provide Owner with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far as possible in advance of any given flight. Requests for flight time shall be in a form, whether oral or written, mutually convenient to and agreed upon by Owner and Lessee. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, Lessee shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by Owner or Owners flight crew:
5.
 
Owner shall have sole and exclusive authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft, including which Aircraft is used for any particular flight.
(2)
6.
 
Owner shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance, and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling flights of the various Aircraft. No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance, or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless such maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot-in-command. The pilot-in-command shall have final and complete authority to cancel any flight for any reason or condition that in his or her judgment would compromise the safety of the flight.
7.
 
Owner shall employ, pay for, and provide to Lessee a qualified flight crew for each flight undertaken under this Agreement. In accordance with applicable FAR, the qualified flight crew provided by Owner will exercise all of its duties and responsibilities with respect to the safety of each flight conducted under this Agreement. Lessee agrees that the flight crew, in its sole discretion, may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take other action that in the considered judgment of the pilot-in-command is necessitated by considerations of safety. Without limiting the generality of Section 8, no such action of the pilot-in-command shall create or support any liability for loss, injury, damage, or delay to Lessee or any other person.
8.
 
The Owner and Lessee agree that Owner shall not be liable to Lessee or any other person for loss, injury, or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason.
9.
 
The risk of loss during the period when any Aircraft is operated on behalf of Lessee under this Agreement shall remain with Owner, and Owner will retain all rights and benefits with respect to the proceeds payable under policies of hull insurance maintained by Owner that may be payable as a result of any incident or occurrence while an Aircraft is being operated on behalf of Lessee under this Agreement. Lessee shall be named as an additional insured on liability insurance policies maintained by Owner on the Aircraft with respect to flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement. The liability insurance policies on which Lessee is named an additional insured shall provide that as to Lessee coverage shall not be invalidated or adversely affected by any action or inaction, omission or misrepresentation by Owner or any other person (other than Lessee). Any hull insurance policies maintained by Owner on any Aircraft used by Lessee under this Agreement shall include a waiver of any rights of subrogation of the insurers against Lessee.
10.
 
A copy of this Agreement shall be carried in the Aircraft and available for review upon the request of the FAA on all flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement.
11.
 
Lessee represents, warrants and covenants to Owner that:
(3)
12.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the permanent base of operation of the Aircraft shall be Stewart Newburgh Airport, 169 Route 17K, Newburgh, NY, unless changed by Owner, in which event Owner shall notify Lessee of the new permanent base of operation of the Aircraft.
 
13.
 
Owner and Lessee agree with respect to the following indemnification provisions:
(4)
result of any failure of Lessee to comply with any covenants required to be performed or observed by him, or (iii) to the extent such Loss is a direct result of any breach by Lessee of any of Lessees warranties or representations contained in this Agreement.
14.
 
Neither this Agreement nor any partys interest in this Agreement shall be assignable to any other person or entity.
15.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York (excluding the conflicts of law rules thereof).
16.
 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Owner and Lessee with respect to its subject matter, and there are no representations, warranties, conditions, covenants, or Agreements other than as set forth expressly herein. Any changes or modifications to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by authorized representatives of both parties. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which shall, singly or in the aggregate, constitute a fully executed and binding Agreement.
17.
 
Any notice, request, or other communication to any party by the other party under this Agreement shall be conveyed in writing and shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date (i) notice is personally delivered with receipt acknowledged, (ii) a facsimile notice is transmitted, or (iii) three (3) days after notice is mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage paid, and addressed to the party at the address set forth below. The address of a party to which notices or copies of notice are to be given may be changed from time to time by such party by written notice to the other party.
General Electric Company
3135 Easton Turnpike
Fairfield, CT 06828
Attention: General Counsel
FAX: 1-203-373-3225
18.
 
If any one or more of the provisions of the Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unimpaired, and the invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a mutually acceptable provision, which, being valid, legal, and enforceable, comes closest to the intention of the parties underlying the invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law, which renders any provision of this Agreement prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
(5)
19.
 
Neither Owner (nor its affiliates) makes, has made or shall be deemed to make or have made, and Owner (for itself and its affiliates) hereby disclaims, any warranty or representation, either express or implied, written or oral, with respect to any aircraft to be used hereunder or any engine or component thereof including, without limitation, any warranty as to design, compliance with specifications, quality of materials or workmanship, merchantability, fitness for any purpose, use or operation, airworthiness, safety, patent, trademark or copyright infringement or title.
20.
 
Truth in leasing statement under FAR Section 91.23:
(6)
(7)
 


