FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050506073454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
 
Restatement and non-reliance
 
On the date hereof, General Electric Company (GE or we) is filing an amendment to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, to amend and restate financial statements and other financial information for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002 and financial information for the year 2001 and for each of the quarters in the years 2004 and 2003 with respect to the accounting for certain derivatives transactions. These transactions relate to treasury operations at General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC). The effect of the restatement on our statement of financial position at the end of the reported periods is immaterial and the restatement has no effect on our cash flows.
In light of the restatement, readers should no longer rely on our previously filed financial statements and other financial information for the years and for each of the quarters in the years 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Readers should also no longer rely on our previously announced results for the first quarter of 2005. Our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2005 is being filed on the date hereof.
Background
 
In the course of a regularly scheduled audit, our internal corporate audit staff identified errors with respect to GECCs use of hedge accounting for certain transactions under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
, as amended (SFAS 133). Descriptions of these errors follow:
(2)
During its audit, the internal audit staff reported its findings to management, to KPMG LLP and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. After initial discussions with the Audit Committee, management reviewed these matters in further detail, and after completing its analysis on May 5, 2005, recommended to the Audit Committee that previously reported financial results be restated to reflect correction of these errors. The Audit Committee agreed with this recommendation. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors determined at its meeting on May 5, 2005, that previously reported results for GE, General Electric Capital Services (GECS) and GECC be restated to eliminate hedge accounting for these swaps and, in light of the restatement, that the financial statements and other financial information referred to above should no longer be relied upon.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has discussed the matters disclosed in this current report on Form 8-K with KPMG LLP.
After we commenced the work for an internal audit in connection with GECCs treasury operations, we received a letter dated January 20, 2005, from the Boston District Office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, indicating that it was conducting an informal investigation and requesting that GE and GECC voluntarily provide certain documents and information with respect to the use of hedge accounting for derivatives by us and GECC. In response to the staffs request, we and GECC have voluntarily provided documents and other information and we intend to continue to cooperate fully with them in their ongoing investigation.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 6, 2005, GE issued a press release announcing the restatement of GEs financial statements and other financial information for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002 and financial information for the year 2001 and for each of the quarters in the years 2004 and 2003. The press release also announces an adjustment to the financial information that was previously announced in an earnings release on April 15, 2005 for the first quarter of 2005. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
99  Press release, dated: May 6, 2005, issued by General Electric Company
(3)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(4)
 

PRESS RELEASE
FAIRFIELD, CONNECTICUT (May 6, 2005) -
GE today is amending its 2004 Form 10K to restate its financial statements for the years 2002 through 2004, and certain financial information for the year 2001 and each quarter in 2003 and 2004. The cumulative
 
effect of these changes is a non-cash earnings increase of $381 million from 2001 through the first quarter of 2005, less than six-tenths of one percent of GEs earnings over this period.
During a regularly scheduled Corporate Audit Staff review, GE concluded that its accounting for certain transactions used to protect its financial services businesses from changes in interest and currency exchange rates do not technically comply with SFAS 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
Keith Sherin, senior vice president and CFO, said, We implemented SFAS 133 with diligence in 2001, and our technical accountants and KPMG reviewed that implementation. However, under SFAS 133, its clear some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Looking back, the result of not using hedge accounting is immaterial on an annual basis. However, on a quarterly basis the impacts would be material and we decided to restate results. There is no effect economically as the Companys match funding objectives were met, and there has been no effect on cash flows, Sherin said.
GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said, We are committed to high standards of controllership and transparency and we live by our words. The cumulative impact results in our earnings increasing fractionally. When our internal auditors found these errors, we fixed them promptly and disclosed our findings. There will be no volatility and an insignificant impact going forward.
The Company is in great shape, Immelt said. Our April orders are strong and we have increased guidance for second quarter and maintained guidance for the year. We remain committed to meeting or exceeding our expectations and those of investors. 
GE reaffirmed earnings per share (EPS) guidance for the total year 2005 of $1.78-1.83. First quarter 2005 earnings are reduced by $78 million due to the non-cash impact of not using
(1)
hedge accounting, resulting in EPS of $.37 (versus $.38 previously announced). GE increased second quarter 2005 EPS guidance to $.43-.45 from $.42-$.44.
GE will hold a conference call and Webcast at 8:00 a.m. this morning to discuss these restated results and revised guidance. The Webcast and related materials will be available at
www.ge.com/investor
.
General Electric Capital Services and General Electric Capital Corporation are also amending their 2004 10Ks for the same periods and reason.
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at
www.ge.com
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
2005 results are preliminary and quarterly information is unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties arise from the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices, from future integration of acquired businesses, from future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries, from unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses, and from numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield
David Frail, 203/373.3387
 
david.frail@ge.com
(2)


