FILE:GE/GE-8K-20051014074434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On October 14, 2005, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs third-quarter 2005 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99
 
Press release, dated: October 14, 2005, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE
GE Reports Record 3Q 2005 Financial Results
Fairfield, Conn., Oct. 14, 2005
- GEs third-quarter 2005 earnings were a record $4.7 billion, 15% higher than last years third quarter, with earnings per share (EPS) of $.44, 16% above the $.38 reported last year, the Company announced today.
Despite a volatile environment, our fundamentals remain very strong, as we achieved double-digit earnings growth across all six of our businesses, said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. Our businesses are generating solid top and bottom line growth. We increased revenue by 9% to $41.9 billion and produced another record for earnings in the quarter with $4.7 billion, an increase of 15%.
This was our third consecutive quarter of 8% organic revenue growth. We continue to optimize our growth initiatives for sustained and consistent performance, Immelt said. Orders were up 11%, services sales increased 9%, revenue from accelerating growth platforms, such as Healthcare IT and Oil & Gas, grew 24% , and we generated strong double-digit global revenue growth from markets such as China and Europe.
We delivered EPS at the high end of our previous guidance despite incurring over $377 million of hurricane-related reinsurance losses, said Immelt. Even in the face of significant natural disasters, our team once again delivered on our financial commitment to shareowners.
 
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities increased 51%. For the full year 2005, we expect to generate approximately $20 billion in CFOA, up more than 30%, Immelt said. Because of this strong position, we increased our planned stock buyback from $3 billion to more than $4 billion for 2005, which puts us ahead in our three-year $15 billion buyback schedule. We will continue to explore additional ways to return cash to investors.
 
Third Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
We are carrying our momentum into the fourth quarter, said Immelt. Our six businesses are aligned to better serve our customers. We are operating with greater efficiency, and we are identifying innovative ways to utilize our full portfolio of assets to offer new products and services.
We raised the lower end of our full year 2005 guidance from $1.80 to $1.81, for a full year EPS outlook range of $1.81-1.83, an increase of 12-14%. We see $.56-.58 EPS in 4Q 05, up 10-14% (excluding the previously announced SFAS 133-related correction to the 4Q 2004), and up 6-9% as reported. And we expect organic revenue growth to hit our target of 8% for the full year, said Immelt. With our stable asset quality and continued strong orders, we are well positioned for a strong finish to the year and solid double-digit growth into 2006.
The effects of the Hurricanes Katrina and Rita were felt both internally and externally at GE. I am extremely proud of the way the GE Family rallied to provide relief to their colleagues and the people in the Gulf Coast region, added Immelt. GE and our employees have contributed and helped raise more than $73 million. We are committed to helping rebuild this important region.
GE will discuss preliminary third-quarter results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Call information is available at www.ge.com/investor, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
Third Quarter 2005 Business Highlights
Infrastructure
 
Commercial Finance
 
Consumer Finance
 
 
Industrial
 
NBC Universal
 
Healthcare
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties which could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices; strategic actions, including dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 30, 2005 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2004 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual04 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended September 30, 2005, compared with the three months ended September 30, 2004, the increase in cash from operating activities from our industrial businesses (or Industrial CFOA) for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and Industrial sales growth for the three months ended September 30, 2005, compared with the three months ended September 30, 2004, excluding the effects of the 2004 Olympics broadcasts. We also referred to earnings per share growth excluding a previously announced SFAS 133 - related correction to fourth quarter 2004. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures - revenues, cash from operating activities, Industrial sales and earnings per share - follow.
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our third quarter 2005 revenue growth without the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange rates, without the effects of our Insurance business, whose revenues were adversely affected by the changing economic environment and other factors in the third quarter of 2004, and without the effects of the 2004 Olympics broadcasts. Similarly, we believe that investors would find it useful to compare the sales of our industrial businesses without the effects of the 2004 Olympics broadcasts. We also believe that investors would find it useful to compare our operating cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, to the operating cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, without the impact of GECS dividends, which can vary from period-to-period. On May 6, 2005, GE filed amended financial statements for certain prior years and interim periods, including fourth quarter 2004, to reflect corrections in its accounting for derivatives under SFAS 133. The correction had the effect of increasing fourth quarter 2004 EPS from $.51 per share to $.53 per share. We are providing the EPS comparison to the pre-correction basis because we believe this reconciliation provides investors with a better understanding of the variance with fourth quarter 2005 earnings per share guidance.


