FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050802152640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On July 28, 2005, the Board of Directors Management Development and Compensation Committee revised the vesting schedule for restricted stock units (RSUs) granted under the RSU Career Retention Program on and after July 28, 2005. For these RSUs, restrictions on 25% will lapse after three, five, seven and ten years, provided continued employment through each of these dates.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, restrictions on all such RSUs will immediately lapse upon the employees termination of employment with the Company or any of its affiliates by reason of the employees retirement at or after age 60, or death, provided the employee has been continuously employed to the date of termination. T
wo executive officers received RSUs with these new terms: Arthur H. Harper, with 25,000 RSUs, and Shane Fitzsimons, with 15,000 RSUs. The form of award grant agreement for such RSUs is attached hereto as an exhibit and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
This Item 5.02 amends Item 5.02 in the Form 8-K filed on June 14, 2005.
 
On June 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of the General Electric Company elected Robert W. Lane, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Deere & Company, the worlds leading manufacturer of agricultural and forestry equipment, to the Board of Directors.
 
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Lane is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Companys independence guidelines, as set forth in its Governance Principles.
 
On July 29, 2005, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Lane to its Audit Committee.
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Certificate - additional terms
1.
 
Grant.
The Management Development and Compensation Committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company (Company) has granted Restricted Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents (RSUs) to the individual named on the front of this Certificate (Grantee). Each RSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share (Common Stock), and (ii) quarterly cash payments equivalent to the dividend paid to shareholders of such stock, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan (Plan), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
2.
 
Restricted Stock Units
. The Company will deliver to the Grantee one share of Common Stock for each RSU of the Grant for which the restrictions set forth in paragraph 4 lapse in accordance with their terms.
3.
 
Dividend Equivalents
. Until the Grantees employment with the Company and its affiliates is terminated for any reason, or until such time as the following restrictions lapse, whichever occurs first, the Company will pay the Grantee a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Companys Common Stock, with such payments to be made reasonably promptly after the payment date of each quarterly dividend.
4.
 
Restrictions.
Restrictions on the number of RSUs specified on the front of this certificate will lapse on the designated Restriction Lapse Dates only if the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company or one of its affiliates to such dates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, restrictions on all RSUs will immediately lapse upon the Grantees termination of employment with the Company or any of its affiliates by reason of the Grantees retirement at or after age 60, or death, provided the Grantee had been continuously employed as provided above to the date of termination.
5.
 
Alteration/Termination.
The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any RSUs without the consent of the Grantee. Also, any RSUs for which the restrictions do not lapse in accordance with the terms in paragraph 4 above shall be canceled.
6.
 
Plan Terms.
All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request.
7.
 
Entire Agreement.
This Grant, the Plan, and the rules and procedures adopted by the Committee, contain all of the provisions applicable to the RSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Grantee.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.


