FILE:GE/GE-8K-20050920142713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
(a)
 
On September 16, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the General Electric Companys Board of Directors granted 250,000 performance share units (PSUs) to Jeffrey R. Immelt. This is the only equity-based compensation awarded to Mr. Immelt in 2005.
 
These PSUs have the same terms as the PSUs granted to Mr. Immelt in 2003 and 2004, except for the performance period. Half of these PSUs will convert into shares of GE stock only if GEs cash flow from operating activities, adjusted to exclude the effect of unusual events, has grown an average of 10% or more per year over the five-year performance period from 2005 through 2009. Otherwise, they will be cancelled. The remaining 125,000 PSUs will convert into shares of GE stock only if GEs total shareowner return meets or exceeds that of the S&P 500 over the five-year performance period. Otherwise, they will be cancelled. For this purpose, total shareowner return means the cumulative total return on GE stock and the S&P 500 index, respectively, from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009, calculated in the same manner as the five-year performance graph included in GEs proxy statement. During the performance period, Mr. Immelt will receive quarterly payments on each PSU equal to GEs quarterly per share dividends.
 
(b)
 
On September 16, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the General Electric Companys Board of Directors adopted the 2006 Executive Deferred Salary Plan (Plan), effective January 1, 2006. Since 1991, the Company has offered a salary deferral plan to its executives every three years for the purpose of executive retention. Under the Plan, approximately 4,000 executives will be able to defer, at their election, between 10% and 50% of their salary during 2006. This deferred salary amount will accrue interest at a rate of 8.5%, compounded annually, but the interest income will not be earned, or vest, unless the executive remains with the Company for a period of five years. Early termination before the vesting date will result in an immediate payout of the deferred salary amount with no interest income paid, with exceptions for retirement, death, disability, layoff, plant closing and transfer to a successor employer.
In addition, the Company will credit each participating executives account with an amount equal to 3.5% of the deferred salary amount, which is based on the maximum matching contribution rate the Company provides to employees in connection with its Savings and Security Program.
Payouts from any deferred salary accounts, including interest income, will be made only after the termination of employment.
 
None of the Companys five highest paid executive officers in 2004 will participate in the Plan.
 
A copy of the 2006 Executive Deferred Salary Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.
 
Exhibit Index
 
10     General Electric 2006 Executive Deferred Salary Plan
 
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10
Each employee of General Electric Company or a participating affiliate ("Company") who, as of December 31, 2005, is in an Executive Band or higher position, or, in the discretion of affiliate management, an equivalent position in such affiliate, and who is subject to U.S. tax laws, shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.
As of December 31, 2006, a special one-time credit shall be made to the Deferred Account of each Participant who is actively employed by the Company on such date. The amount of such credit shall equal 3.5% of the total base salary deferred under this Plan by the Participant (excluding interest). Such credit shall not be provided for any Participant who has terminated employment with the Company for any reason prior to December 31, 2006, or is not actively employed on such date.
(1)
In the event of a Participant's death prior to receiving any or all payments to which the Participant is entitled, the remaining Deferred Account shall be paid at the time and in the manner provided in Section V to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant on a beneficiary designation form properly filed by the Participant with the Company in accordance with established administrative procedures. If no such designated beneficiary survives the Participant, such remaining benefits shall be paid as set forth above to the Participant's estate.
(2)
This Plan shall be administered by a "Committee" consisting of not less than two persons appointed from time to time by the Chairman. The Committee shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to administer and interpret the Plan in its sole discretion. All Committee decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons.
This Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (MDCC), except that the MDCC may not alter a Participants individual elections made pursuant to Section II.1.
The effective date of this Plan shall be January 1, 2006.
(3)


