FILE:GE/GE-8K-20060714075712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 14, 2006, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs second-quarter 2006 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99     Press release, dated: July 14, 2006, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
  
PRESS RELEASE
GE Reports Strong Second-Quarter 2006 Financial Results with 15% EPS Growth, 9% Revenue Growth and Record Cash Flow
 
 
Fairfield, Conn. July 14, 2006
- GE announced today record second-quarter 2006 earnings from continuing operations of $4.9 billion or $.47 per share, up 11% and 15%, respectively, from second-quarter 2005. Revenues from continuing operations were also a record $39.9 billion, up 9% from last years second quarter. First-half cash from GEs operating activities was a record $14.3 billion, up 78%.
We continue to execute our strategy, said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. We are generating consistently strong earnings growth, with EPS up 15%. Our returns are expanding, with ROTC up 2 points. And we are improving our businesses by leveraging our growth initiatives.
Our solid quarterly results were highlighted by strong top- and bottom-line growth at Commercial Finance, demand for our products and services at Infrastructure and strong profitability at Healthcare, Consumer Finance and Industrial, said Immelt. We are making good progress at NBC Universal, which continues to improve with increasing ratings and a diversified business model of content leveraged across all delivery platforms.
This is our sixth straight quarter of organic revenue growth that meets our goal of 2-3X GDP. This consistent performance demonstrates the quality of our businesses and the excellence of our execution, added Immelt. We see this string continuing. Total company orders were up 17% for the quarter, showing strong future demand for our products and services. Orders for equipment increased 33%, including a 59% surge in Infrastructure orders, while services orders increased 13%, added Immelt.
 
 
(1)
In addition, our businesses are producing healthy cash flows. For the first half, we generated $14.3 billion in CFOA, an increase of 78% over the same period of last year, with the inclusion of the $5.7 billion proceeds from the sale of Insurance Solutions and our final stake in Genworth. Industrial CFOA increased 9% to $6.7 billion. We used our cash to fund the businesses, pay our dividends and acquire 176 million shares of GE common stock. Through the first half of this year, we have funded $6 billion of the $7-9 billion stock repurchase we have planned for 2006.
Second-Quarter 2006 Financial Highlights:
Earnings from continuing operations
were $4.854 billion, up 11% from $4.376 billion in second quarter 2005. EPS from continuing operations were $.47, up 15% from last years $.41. Five of six businesses contributed double-digit earnings growth for the quarter.
Continuing revenues
of $39.9 billion were 9% higher than last years $36.5 billion. Industrial sales increased 9% to $24.4 billion, reflecting core growth. Financial Services revenues grew 10% over last year to $15.3 billion, reflecting core growth and the effects of acquisitions.
Cash
generated from GEs operating activities in the first six months of 2006 totaled $14.3 billion compared with $8.0 billion last year, reflecting a $5.8 billion increase in GE Capital Services dividends, substantially all of which was proceeds from sales of insurance businesses, and a 9% increase from the industrial businesses.
Loss from discontinued operations
was $2 million for the quarter and included the results of Genworth, the final transaction for GE Insurance Solutions, and GE Life, which is in the process of being sold. Accordingly second-quarter 2006 net EPS were $.47, up 7% from the second quarter of 2005.
We are focused on sustained execution and long-term performance. We have a strong set of businesses managed by great people in many of the best markets in the world. Our goals are to generate organic revenue growth of 2-3X GDP, deliver 10%+ earnings growth and expand ROTC to 20% by 2008. For the third quarter, we expect double-digit segment profit growth in five of our six businesses and EPS from continuing operations of $.48-.50, up 12-16%. We are reaffirming our full-year 2006 guidance of earnings from continuing operations increasing 13-17% to $1.94-2.02, said Immelt.
 
GE will discuss second quarter results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. EDT today. Call information is available at
www.ge.com/investor
, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at
www.ge.com
.
 
(2)
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Results are preliminary and unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties which could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices; strategic actions, including dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
General Electric, Fairfield
Investor Contact:
Dan Janki, 203-373.2468 (office)
General Electric, Fairfield
 
(3)
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation matters.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation matters.
(4)
(5)
(6)
June 30, 2006 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation matters.
(7)
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended June 30, 2006, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2005, the increase in cash from operating activities from our industrial businesses (or Industrial CFOA) for the six months ended June 30, 2006, compared with the six months ended June 30, 2005 and return on average total capital invested (ROTC), which is calculated using average total shareowners' equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.
 
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our 2006 growth in revenues without the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions and currency exchange rates. We also believe that investors would find it useful to compare our operating cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2006, to the operating cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2005, without the effect of GECS dividends, which can vary from period-to-period.
 
 
U.S. GAAP requires earnings of discontinued operations to be displayed separately in the Statement of Earnings. Accordingly, the numerator used in our calculation of return on average total capital invested excludes those earnings (losses). Further we believe it is appropriate to exclude from the average shareowners' equity component of the denominator the cumulative effect of those earnings (losses) since 2000 (reclassifications for discontinued operations began in 2001), as well as our average net investment in discontinued operations since the second half of 2005. Had we disposed of these operations before mid-2005, proceeds would have been applied to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital; however since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired in the first half of 2005, we have assumed that any proceeds after that time would have been distributed to shareowners by means of share repurchases, thus reducing average total shareowners' equity.
 


