FILE:GE/GE-8K-20060911130345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
(a) On September 8, 2006, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the General Electric Companys Board of Directors granted 250,000 performance share units (PSUs) to Jeffrey R. Immelt.
These PSUs have the same terms as the PSUs granted to Mr. Immelt in 2003, 2004 and 2005 except for the performance period and the dividend equivalents. Half of these PSUs will convert into shares of GE stock only if GEs cash flow from operating activities, adjusted to exclude the effect of unusual events, has grown an average of 10% or more per year over the five-year performance period from 2006 through 2010. Otherwise, they will be cancelled. The remaining 125,000 PSUs will convert into shares of GE stock only if GEs total shareowner return meets or exceeds that of the S&P 500 over the five-year performance period. Otherwise, they will be cancelled. For this purpose, total shareowner return means the cumulative total return on GE stock and the S&P 500 index, respectively, from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2010, calculated in the same manner as the five-year performance graph included in GEs proxy statement.
During the performance period, each PSU entitles Mr. Immelt to accumulate quarterly payments equal to the quarterly dividends on one share of GE stock. Mr. Immelt is entitled to receive these dividend equivalents (without interest) on shares he actually receives at the end of the performance period and upon satisfaction of the performance targets.
An amended form of the award grant agreement for performance stock units to executive officers under the General Electric 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On September 8, 2006, the Board of Directors elected Lloyd G. Trotter as Vice Chairman of General Electric Company. Mr. Trotter will be the President and CEO of GE Industrial.
Exhibit Index
 
10.1 Amended Form of Agreement for Performance Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under the General Electric 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Grant Date: XXX
Restriction Lapse Date: XXX
Value on Grant Date: XXX
Dividend Equivalents: XXX
Performance Stock Unit Grant Certificate - additional terms
PSU Grant. The Management Development and Compensation Committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company (Company) has granted Performance Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents (PSUs) to the individual named on the front of this Certificate (Grantee). Each PSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share (Common Stock), and (ii) cash payments based on dividends paid to shareholders of such stock, for each PSU for which the restrictions set forth below lapse in accordance with their terms, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan (Plan), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
 
Dividend Equivalents. Until such time as the following restrictions lapse, or the PSUs are cancelled, whichever occurs first, the Company will establish an amount to be paid to the Grantee (Dividend Equivalent) equal to the number of PSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Companys Common Stock. The Company shall accumulate Dividend Equivalents and will pay the Grantee a cash amount equal to the Dividend Equivalents accumulated and unpaid as of the date that restrictions lapse (without interest) reasonably promptly after such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any accumulated and unpaid Dividend Equivalents attributable to PSUs that are cancelled will not be paid and are immediately forfeited upon cancellation of the PSUs.
 
Restrictions/Performance Goals. Restrictions on XX% of the PSUs shall lapse on the Restriction Lapse Date if (i) the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company to such date and (ii) the Company's Average Annual Total Shareowner % Return ("TSR") is equal to or exceeds the Average Annual Total Shareowner % Return for the S&P 500 companies ("S&P 500 TSR") for the XX-year period of [START DATE] to [END DATE]. Restrictions on the other XX% of the PSUs shall lapse on the Restriction Lapse Date if (i) the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company to such date and (ii) the Company's average annual % growth in Cash Flow from Operating Activities ("CFOA"), adjusted to exclude the effect of unusual events, is equal to or exceeds XX% for the XX-year period of [START DATE] to [END DATE]. Measurement of TSR and CFOA shall be determined in accordance with the customary accounting and financial reporting practices utilized by the Company according to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). PSUs for which restrictions do not lapse in accordance with this paragraph shall be immediately cancelled.
 
Alteration/Termination. The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any PSUs without the consent of the Grantee.
 
Plan Terms. All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request.
 
Entire Agreement. This Grant, the Plan, and the rules and procedures adopted by the Committee, contain all of the provisions applicable to the PSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by the Chairman of the Committee and delivered to the Grantee.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.


