FILE:GE/GE-8K-20060413074358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
(1)
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 13, 2006, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs first-quarter 2006 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
At its next regularly scheduled board meeting, GE management will recommend to its Board of Directors that it amend its By-Laws to implement its majority vote policy for director elections (Governance Principle # 20). For purposes of this policy, a compelling reason could include, without limitation, a situation in which a director nominee was the target of a vote no campaign on an illegitimate basis, such as racial discrimination, or on the basis of misinformation or the resignation would cause the company to be in violation of its constituent documents or regulatory requirements.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99     Press release, dated: April 13, 2006, issued by General Electric Company
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
GE Reports Record First-Quarter Financial Results with Double- Digit Increases in 2006 Earnings, Revenues and Cash Flow
 
Fairfield, Conn. April 13, 2006
GE announced today record first-quarter 2006 earnings from continuing operations of $4.0 billion or $.39 per share, up 14% and 18%, respectively, from first-quarter 2005. Revenues from continuing operations were also a record $37.8 billion, up 10% from last years first quarter. Cash flow from GEs operating activities was a record $6.7 billion.
We had a strong performance in the quarter highlighted by double-digit growth in earnings, revenues and cash flow, said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. Driven by demand for our industrial equipment, momentum in healthcare and continued performance in our financial services businesses, we achieved 9% organic revenue growth. Five of six of GEs businesses delivered double-digit earnings growth.
Importantly, orders were strong across the company, growing 33%. Our orders for equipment and services were particularly robust, growing 67% and 20%, respectively. This gives us good visibility going forward, added Immelt.
Our solid fundamentals are delivering strong cash flow growth. For the quarter, we generated $6.7 billion in CFOA, an increase of 132% over the first quarter of last year, bolstered by the proceeds from the sale of our remaining stake in Genworth. With our healthy cash position, we acquired 88 million shares of GE common stock, which accounts for $3 billion of the $7-9 billion stock repurchase we have planned for this year. We also increased ROTC by 1.4 percentage points over the first quarter of 2005 to 17% - good progress toward our long-term goal of exceeding 20%, said Immelt.
 
 
- 1 -
The first quarter results are a good reflection of our strategic execution, added Immelt. Our products are winning in the global infrastructure markets, creating a high-margin installed base. We have sustained our high-return growth in financial services in an increasing interest rate environment. Our diversified healthcare franchise is winning globally with technical leadership that is providing consistent growth. We improved our operating performance in the Industrial segment. And we are improving NBC Universals performance based on a diversified business mix and quality programming, added Immelt.
 
First-Quarter 2006 Financial Highlights:
Earnings from continuing operations
were $4.042 billion, up 14% from $3.560 billion in first quarter 2005. EPS from continuing operations were $.39, up 18% from last years $.33. Five of GEs six businesses contributed double-digit earnings growth for the quarter.
Continuing revenues
of $37.8 billion were 10% higher than last years $34.4 billion. Industrial sales increased 11% to $23.1 billion, reflecting core growth, and the effects of the 2006 Winter Olympic Games and acquisitions. Financial Services revenues grew 8% over last year to $14.7 billion, reflecting core growth.
Cash
generated from GEs operating activities in the first three months of 2006 totaled $6.7 billion compared with $2.9 billion last year, reflecting a 24% increase from the industrial businesses. The GE Capital Services dividend of $3.4 billion for the quarter was up $3.2 billion over last year, primarily reflecting $2.5 billion from the sale of our remaining 18% stake in Genworth.
Earnings from discontinued operations
were $0.3 billion and included the results of Genworth, GE Insurance Solutions and, beginning in first quarter 2006, GE Life, which is in the process of being sold. Accordingly, first-quarter 2006 net EPS were $.41, up 11% from the first quarter of 2005.
Our strategic exit from the insurance business is on track, added Immelt. We expect to close the sale of Insurance Solutions to Swiss Re in the second quarter of this year and anticipate selling GE Life in the next 12 months. When we complete the Insurance Solutions sale, we will receive up to $3 billion in cash and have a stronger portfolio of higher return, less volatile businesses.
 
We are right on plan for the year. Our growth initiatives are performing well, our fundamentals are solid, our orders are up, and we have a healthy cash flow stream fueling our businesses and funding our share repurchase program. The company is well positioned going forward. For the second quarter, we expect double-digit segment profit growth in five of our six businesses and EPS from continuing operations of $.46-.48. We are reaffirming our full-year 2006 guidance of earnings from continuing operations increasing 13-17% to $1.94-2.02, said Immelt.
GE will discuss first quarter results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Call information is available at
www.ge.com/investor
, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
- 2 -
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at
www.ge.com
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Results are preliminary and unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties which could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices; strategic actions, including dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Contact: General Electric, Fairfield
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
 
 
- 3 -
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation matters.
- 4 -
- 5 -
- 6 -
March 31, 2006 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and Financial Services (GECS). Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation matters.
- 7 -
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2006, compared with the three months ended March 31, 2005, the increase in cash from operating activities from our industrial businesses (or Industrial CFOA) for the three months ended March 31, 2006, compared with the three months ended March 31, 2005 and return on average total capital invested (ROTC), which is calculated using average total shareowners equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our 2006 growth in revenues without the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions and currency exchange rates and without the effects of the 2006 Olympics broadcasts. We also believe that investors would find it useful to compare our operating cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2006, to the operating cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2005, without the effect of GECS dividends, which can vary from period-to-period.
U.S. GAAP requires earnings of discontinued operations to be displayed separately in the Statement of Earnings. Accordingly, the numerator used in our calculation of return on average total capital invested excludes those earnings (losses). Further we believe it is appropriate to exclude from the average shareowners equity component of the denominator the cumulative effect of those earnings (losses) since 2000 (reclassifications for discontinued operations began in 2001), as well as our average net investment in discontinued operations since the second half of 2005. Had we disposed of these operations before mid-2005, proceeds would have been applied to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital; however since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired in the first half of 2005, we have assumed that any proceeds after that time would have been distributed to shareowners by means of share repurchases, thus reducing average total shareowners equity.
- 8 -


