FILE:GE/GE-8K-20070427143025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers
On April 25, 2007, the shareowners of the General Electric Company (the Company) approved the General Electric 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) at the annual meeting of shareowners. Any salaried employee of the Company will be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Plan will be administered by a committee of the Companys Board of Directors consisting of at least three non-employee directors. The committee may award stock options in the form of nonqualified stock options or incentive stock options, or stock appreciation rights, each with a maximum term of ten years. The committee may also award restricted stock and restricted stock units and establish the applicable restrictions. In addition, the committee may grant performance awards and other stock-based awards, with performance awards payable to, or exercisable by, the participant upon the achievement of performance goals during performance periods. The maximum number of shares as to which stock options and stock awards may be granted under the Plan is 500,000,000, of which no more than 250,000,000 may be available for awards granted in any form provided for under the Plan other than options or stock appreciation rights. Shares surrendered for the payment of the exercise price or withholding taxes under stock options or stock appreciation rights, and shares repurchased in the open market with the proceeds of an option exercise, may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan. This description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation
On April 25, 2007, the shareowners of the Company approved an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation at the annual meeting of shareowners pursuant to which each director nominee in a non-contested director election must be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against the election of such director nominee at a meeting of shareowners. In a contested election, directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareowners. An election will be considered contested if, as of the record date, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board of Directors to be filled. The amended Certificate of Incorporation became effective on April 26, 2007.
Amendments of By-laws
Effective April 26, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted the following amendments to the Companys By-laws:
Director
Resignation Policy
In connection with the shareowner approval of the amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation described above, the Board amended Article II, Section C of the Companys By-Laws to conform its existing director resignation policy to the new majority vote standard. Under New York law, an incumbent director who is not re-elected may remain in office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, continuing as a holdover director. Pursuant to the amendment, in any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes cast against his or her election than in favor of such election must immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors will decide, through a process managed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Boards explanation of its decision must be promptly disclosed on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
Advance Notice Provision
The Board amended Article VII of the Companys By-Laws to add an advance notice provision. Pursuant to this amendment, if a shareowner wishes to present either (1) a proposal relating to director nominations or (2) a proposal relating to a matter other than director nominations, otherwise than pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the proxy rules of the SEC, the shareowner must comply with the procedures contained in the amended by-law. These procedures include timely notice to the Companys Secretary of such proposal and specific requirements as to the content of the proposal. For a notice to be timely, any such proposal must be delivered to the Companys Secretary not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the anniversary date of the most recent annual meeting of shareowners. If the date of the annual meeting of shareowners is more than 30 days earlier or later than such anniversary date, then the notice must be delivered not later than the close of business on the 75th day prior to the anniversary date of the most recent annual meeting of shareowners. The Board adopted a similar provision for special meetings where directors are elected.
The foregoing descriptions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, which are filed as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by reference.
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1
. Name
 
 
The name of the corporation is General Electric Company.
 
Section 2
. Purposes
 
 
The purposes of the corporation are as follows:
 
A. To manufacture, process, construct, develop, assemble, and produce in any way, to sell, lease, supply, and distribute in any way, to purchase, lease, mine, extract, and acquire in any way, to own, operate, experiment with, deal in, service, finance, and use in any way, equipment, apparatus, appliances, devices, structures, materials, processes, information, tangible and intangible property, services and systems of every kind, nature and description:
 
(1)
 
for any electrical, or energy-conversion, application or purpose, including but not limited to the production, transmission, distribution, storage, regulation, control and use in any manner of electricity, or in any way connected with or deriving from any electrical, or energy-conversion, application or purpose, and,
 
(2)
 
for any other application or purpose, whatsoever, including but not limited to industrial, utility, consumer, defense, governmental, scientific, educational, cultural, financial, recreational, agricultural, transportation,
 
 
*
Text of Certificate of Incorporation as set forth in Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed by the Department of State of New York on April 30, 1965. Section 3.A was subsequently amended on April 29, 1971, to change the authorized number of common shares from 105,000,000 shares with a par value of $5 to 210,000,000 shares with a par value of $2.50; on December 20, 1976, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $2.50, from 210,000,000 shares to 251,500,000 shares; on April 28, 1983, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $2.50, from 251,500,000 shares to 550,000,000 shares, par value $1.25; on April 23, 1987, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $1.25, from 550,000,000 shares to 1,100,000,000 shares, par value $0.63, and to change the authorized number of preferred shares, par value $1, from 2,000,000 to 50,000,000 shares; on April 28, 1994, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $0.63, from 1,100,000,000 shares to 2,200,000,000 shares, par value $0.32; on April 28, 1997, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $0.32, from 2,200,000,000 shares to 4,400,000,000 shares, par value $0.16; and on April 27, 2000, to change the authorized number of common shares, par value $0.16, from 4,400,000,000 shares to 13,200,000,000 shares with a par value of $0.06. Section 3.C. relating to preemptive rights was added by amendment effective May 2, 1975. Section 6 relating to Directors was amended effective April 28, 1988, to limit their personal liability to the corporation and its shareholders; effective June 15, 1993, to set the minimum number of directors at ten and remove the upper limit; and effective April 25, 2007, to implement the election of director
 
2
 
nominees by an affirmative vote of the majority of votes cast in non-contested director elections. General Electric Company was created by a Special Act of the New York Legislature, Chapter 323, Laws of 1892, effective April 15, 1892.
 
construction, mining, and communication applications or purposes.
 
B. To conduct studies and research and development, and to engage in any other activity relating to the development, application, and dissemination of information concerning science, technology, and other fields of endeavor.
 
C. To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise all or part of any interest in the property, assets, business, or good will of any corporation, association, firm, or individual, and to dispose of, or otherwise deal with, such property, assets, business or good will.
 
D. To engage in any activity which may promote the interests of the corporation, or enhance the value of its property, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and in furtherance of the foregoing purposes to exercise all powers now or hereafter granted or permitted by law, including the powers specified in the New York Business Corporation Law.
 
Section 3
. Authorized Shares
 
A. General Authorization
 
The aggregate number of shares which the corporation is authorized to issue is 13,250,000,000 shares, consisting of:
 
(1)
 
13,200,000,000 shares of common stock having a par value of $0.06 per share; and
 
(2)
 
50,000,000 shares of preferred stock having a par value of $1 per share.
 
B. Preferred Stock
 
(1)
 
The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to limitations prescribed by law and the provisions of this subsection B, to provide for the issuance of the preferred shares in series, and by filing a certificate pursuant to the Business Corporation Law, to establish the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each such series. The authority of the Board with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
 
(a)
 
The number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series;
 
(b)
 
The dividend rate on the shares of that series, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, from which date or dates;
 
(c)
 
Whether that series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;
 
3
 
(d)
 
Whether that series shall have conversion privileges and, if so, the terms and conditions of such conversion, including provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;
 
(e)
 
Whether or not the shares of that series shall be redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;
 
(f)
 
The rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation;
 
(g)
 
Any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of that series.
 
(2)
 
Dividends on outstanding preferred shares shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, before any dividends shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on the common shares with respect to the same dividend period.
 
C. Preemptive Rights
 
No present or future holder of any shares of the corporation of any class or series, whether heretofore or hereafter issued, shall have any preemptive rights with respect to (1) any shares of the corporation of any class or series, or (2) any other security of the corporation (including bonds and debentures) convertible into or carrying rights or options to purchase such shares.
 
Section 4
. Office
 
The office of the corporation is located in the City of Schenectady, County of Schenectady, State of New York.
 
Section 5
. By-laws
 
The by-laws may be amended or repealed, and new by-laws may be adopted, by the shareholders or the Board of Directors, except that the Board of Directors shall have no authority to amend or repeal any by-law which is adopted by the shareholders after April 20, 1948, unless such authority is granted to the Board by the specific provisions of a by-law adopted by the shareholders.
 
Section 6
. Directors
 
The Board of Directors of the corporation shall consist of not less than ten directors, the exact number to be determined pursuant to procedures set forth in the by-laws.
 
4
 
A person who is or was a director of the corporation shall have no personal liability to the corporation or its shareholders for damages for any breach of duty in such capacity except that the foregoing shall not eliminate or limit liability where such liability is imposed under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
 
The vote required for election of a director by the shareholders shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against the election of a nominee at a meeting of shareholders. In a contested election, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. An election shall be considered contested if as of the record date there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting.
 
Section 7
. Agent for Process
 
The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of the corporation upon whom process against it may be served, and the post office address to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of such process served upon him is Senior Litigation Counsel, General Electric Company, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06431.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
By-Laws Of General Electric Company*
(as amended by the Board of directors on 4/25/07)
 
Article I
Office
 
The office of this Company shall be in the City of Schenectady, County of
Schenectady, State of New York.
 
Article II
Directors
A. The stock, property and affairs of this Company shall be managed by a Board
of Directors consisting of not less than ten members. The number of Directors
shall be such number, not less than the aforesaid minimum, as shall be
determined by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, except as the
number of Directors for any year shall be fixed by the shareholders at any
annual statutory meeting by a majority vote of the outstanding shares entitled
to vote thereon. The Directors shall be elected each year, at the annual
statutory meeting of the shareholders, to hold office until the next statutory
meeting, and until their successors have been elected and have qualified.
One-third of the number of Directors constituting the entire Board, as that
number shall be determined from time to time, shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
B. Meetings of Directors
 
1. The Board of Directors may fix the time or times and the place or places of
regular and special meetings of the Board. Special meetings of the Directors
also may be held at any time by order of the Chairman of the Board, or in the
absence of the Chairman of the Board, by order of the President, if then a
separate officer, or upon the written direction of two of the Directors.
 
2 . Notice of each special meeting shall be mailed or telegraphed to each
Director at his residence or place of business at least two days before the
meeting and notice shall be deemed to be given at the time of mailing or
delivery to a telegraph office for transmission, but the said two days' notice
need not be given to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether
before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting prior
thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him. If the time and place
of a regular meeting have not been fixed by the Board, notice of such meeting
shall be given as in the case of a special meeting.
 
3. The Board of Directors may prescribe an order of business for its meetings.
 
 
* As last amended and restated by Board of Directors on September 10, 1976,
except for Article XI which was amended by shareholders on April 22, 1987; the
first two sentences of Article II, Section A, which were amended on June 15,
1993; Article III, which was amended by the Board of Directors on December 18,
1998; Article II, Section C, which was amended by the Board of Directors on
April 25, 2006 and again on April 25, 2007; and Article VII, which was amended
by the Board on April 25, 2007.
 
4. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors or any
committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or
the committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the
action. The resolution and the written consent thereto by the members of the
Board or committee shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the
Board or committee.
 
5. Any one or more members of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the
Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by
means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all
persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time.
Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at any such
meeting.
 
C. Election of Directors. In any non-contested election of directors, any
incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes cast against
his or her election than in favor of his or her election shall immediately
tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors shall decide, through
a process managed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and
excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next
regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board's explanation of its decision
shall be promptly disclosed on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).
D. In respect to things not herein specially provided for, the Board of
Directors may exercise the powers conferred on them by law.
Article III
Committees of Directors
The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board,
may designate from among its members, a Management Development and Compensation
Committee, an Audit Committee, a Finance Committee, an Operations Committee, a
Public Responsibilities Committee, a Technology and Science Committee, and other
committees, each consisting of one or more directors, and each of which, to the
extent provided in the applicable resolution, shall have all the authority of
the Board to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Board may designate one or
more directors as ex officio members of any such committee who may replace any
absent member or members at any meeting of such committee.
 
Article IV
Officers
 
A. As determined by the Board of Directors, the officers of this Company shall
include:
 
1. A Chairman of the Board, who shall be chosen by the Directors from their own
number. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company and in that capacity shall have general management, subject to the
control of the Board of Directors, of the business of the Company, including the
appointment of all officers and employees of the Company for whose election or
appointment no other provisions is made in these By-laws; he shall also have the
power, at any time, to discharge or remove any officer or employee of the
Company, subject to the action thereon of the Board of Directors, and shall
perform all other duties appropriate to this office. The Chairman of the Board
shall preside at all meetings of Directors, and he may at any time call any
meeting of the Board of Directors; he may also at his discretion call or attend
any meeting of any committee of the Board, whether or not a member of such
committee.
 
2. One or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, who shall also be chosen by the
Directors from their own number. The Board may designate one or more of the Vice
Chairmen to be Executive Officers of the Company accountable to the Chief
Executive Officer.
 
3. A President of the Company, who shall be chosen by the Directors from their
own number. The office of President will normally be vested in the Chairman of
the Board, provided, however, that in the discretion of the Board, the position
of President may be established independent of, but accountable to, the Chairman
during transition periods.
 
4. Two or more Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may also be designated
Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents accountable to the Chief
Executive Officer.
 
5. A Vice President-Finance, who shall be the principal financial officer of
the Company, and who shall have such duties as the Board, by resolution, shall
determine. In the absence or disability of the Vice President-Finance, the
Chairman of the Board may designate a person to exercise the powers of such
office.
 
6. A Comptroller and a Treasurer who shall be officers of the Company. The
Treasurer and Comptroller shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the
Vice President-Finance. In the absence or disability of the Comptroller or
Treasurer, the Chairman of the Board may designate a person to execute the
powers of such office.
 
7. A Secretary, who shall record in proper books to be kept for that purpose
and have custody of the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders of the
Company and of meetings of the Board of Directors and of committees of the Board
(other than the Compensation Committee) and who shall be responsible for the
custody and care of the seal of the Company. He shall attend to the giving and
serving of all notices of the Company and perform such other duties as may be
imposed upon him by the Board of Directors.
 
The Secretary may appoint an Associate Secretary and Attesting Secretaries, each
of whom shall have the power to affix and attest the corporate seal of the
Company, and to attest the execution of documents on behalf of the Company and
who shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Secretary; and in
the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Associate Secretary may be
designated by the Chairman to exercise the powers of the Secretary.
 
8. Such other officers as the Board may from time to time appoint.
 
B. One person may hold two or more offices, except that no person shall
simultaneously hold the offices of President and Secretary.
C. All officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term
which shall continue until the first Board meeting following the next annual
statutory meeting of shareholders, and thereafter all officers shall be elected
for one-year terms; provided, however, that all officers shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. Officers shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time direct, provided
that these powers and duties are not inconsistent with any outstanding Board
resolutions.
D. In the event of the absence, incapacity, illness or the death of the Chairman
of the Board, the President, if then a separate officer, shall assume the duties
of the Chairman of the Board pending action by the Board of Directors; provided,
however, that if there is not a separate President in office, the duties of the
Chairman of the Board, pending action by the Board of Directors, shall be
assumed by that Vice Chairman who is senior to the others in length of General
Electric Company service.
Article V
Removal of Officers and Employees
A. Any officer or employee of the Company may be at any time removed by the
affirmative vote of at least a majority of the Board of Directors. In case of
such removal the officer so removed shall forthwith deliver all the property of
the Company in his possession, or under his control, to some person to be
designated by the Board. Nothing herein contained shall limit the power of any
officer to discharge any subordinate.
B. The Board may at any time, in the transaction of business, temporarily
delegate any of the duties of any officer to any other officer or person
selected by it.
Article VI
Vacancies
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, or in any office, may be filled
for the unexpired term by the Board of Directors.
 
 
Article VII
Meetings of Shareholders
Meetings of shareholders may be held at such time and in such place within or
without the State of New York as the Board of Directors may determine, and the
annual statutory meeting required by Section 602(b) of the New York Business
Corporation Law shall be held on the fourth Wednesday in April of each year, or
as the Board of Directors may from time to time otherwise determine.
Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Board, or upon the
written request therefor of shareholders holding forty percent of the then
issued stock of the Company, filed with the Secretary.
The Board of Directors may prescribe an order of business for meetings of
shareholders. The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the President, if
then a separate officer, shall preside at meetings of the shareholders;
provided, however, that the Board of Directors may for any meeting of
shareholders designate another officer or officers to preside.
No business shall be conducted at a meeting of the shareholders except in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article VII. Nominations for
the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any
shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors who complies with the
notice procedures set forth in this Article. The proposal of other business
that may properly be considered by shareholders at a meeting may be made only
(i) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting given by or at the direction of
the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors as permitted by law or (iii) by any shareholder of the Company who was
a shareholder of record at the time such shareholder gives notice of such
proposal as provided for in this Article, who is entitled to vote on the
proposal and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Article.
For business to be properly brought by a shareholder before the annual meeting
of shareholders, the shareholder must give timely notice thereof in writing to
the Secretary of the Company and such business must otherwise be a proper matter
for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice of intention to
make a nomination or to propose other business at the annual meeting must either
(i) be sent to the Company in compliance with the requirements of SEC Rule 14a-
8, if the proposal is submitted under such rule, or (ii) if not, be mailed and
received by, or delivered to, the Secretary at the principal executive offices
of the Company not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the
anniversary date of the most recent annual meeting of shareholders or, if the
date of the annual meeting of shareholders is more than 30 days earlier or later
than such anniversary date, then not later than the close of business on the
75th day prior to the anniversary date of the most recent annual meeting of
shareholders.
Only matters as are stated in the notice of a special meeting of shareholders
shall be brought before such a meeting and, in the case of a special meeting
properly noticed for the election of directors, notice of a shareholder's
intention to make a nomination, in order to be timely, must be mailed and
received by, or delivered to, the Secretary at the principal executive offices
of the Company not later than the close of business on the 10th day after notice
of the meeting is properly given.
A shareholder's notice to the Secretary to submit business for action at the
annual meeting of shareholders shall set forth either the information required
by SEC Rule 14a-8 if submitted in accordance with and permitted by such rule or,
if a nomination for the election of a director at the annual meeting or a
special meeting of shareholders or otherwise not in accordance with such rule:
(i) the name and address of the shareholder, (ii) the number of shares of stock
of the Company held of record and beneficially by such shareholder, (iii) a
representation that the shareholder intends to appear at the meeting in person
or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, (iv) a brief
description of the business desired to be submitted to the meeting of
shareholders, including the complete text of any resolutions and any amendment
to any Company document intended to be presented at the meeting of shareholders,
(v) any personal or other direct or indirect material interest of the
shareholder in the business to be submitted, (vi) all other information relating
to the proposed business which may be required to be disclosed under the New
York Business Corporation Law or included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to
the proxy rules of the SEC and (vii) if the shareholder intends to make a
nomination, (a) information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder
as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant
to the proxy rules of the SEC and (b) a description of all arrangements or
understandings between the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or
persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or
nominations are to be made by the shareholder. Notice of intention to make a
nomination shall be accompanied by the written consent of each nominee to serve
as director of the Company if elected.
The officer presiding at the meeting of shareholders shall determine all matters
relating to the efficient conduct of the meeting, including, but not limited to,
the items of business. The presiding officer shall, if the facts warrant,
determine and declare that any putative business was not properly brought before
the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Article VII, in
which case such business shall not be transacted.
Article VIII
Stock and Transfer
A. Certificates of stock, signed by the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice
Chairman, or the President, if then a separate officer, or a Vice President and
the Secretary or Treasurer, shall be issued to the shareholders. Such signatures
may be facsimiles, engraved or printed, and in case any such officer who has
signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall
have ceased to be such before such certificate is issued, such certificate may
be issued by the Company with the same effect as if that officer had not ceased
to be such at the date of its issue.
B. The stock shall be transferable only upon the books of the Company, by the
holder thereof, in person, or by properly authenticated power of attorney.
C. The Board of Directors or Executive Committee may appoint suitable agents in
the City of New York and elsewhere, to facilitate transfers by shareholders
under such regulations as the Board may from time to time prescribe. The
transfer books may be closed by the Board for such periods as may be deemed
advisable for dividend or other purposes.
D. The Board of Directors or Executive Committee may appoint any Bank or Trust
Company in the City of New York or elsewhere, to act as registrar of transfers
of stock until otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors. After the
appointment of any such registrar of transfers, no certificate thereafter issued
for stock shall be binding upon the Company, or have any validity, unless
countersigned by any such registrar of transfers, or by a successor of any such
registrar appointed by the Board of Directors.
 
E. The Board of Directors may make such other and further regulations, with
reference to the stock and its transfer, as to them may seem advisable from time
to time.
 
F. The Board of Directors may call a meeting or meetings of shareholders for the
purpose of authorizing an increase of the stock of this Company, at such time or
times as to the Board may seem advisable.
 
Article IX
Examination of Books
The Board of Directors may, by resolution, make regulations respecting the
examination of the books of the Company by shareholders.
Article X
Engineering Decisions and Activities
All engineering decisions made in a particular state pertaining to any project
or engineering activities conducted by the Company in such state where so
required by law, or where the Chief Executive Officer so directs, shall be made
(a) by the employee of the Company who holds a certificate of registration as an
engineer in such state and who has been specified by the Chief Executive Officer
or the person designated by the Chief Executive Officer to make such
specification, as the engineer in responsible charge of such project or
engineering activities, or (b) by other responsible engineers under his
direction or supervision.
Article XI
Indemnification
A. The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as the
same exists or may hereafter be in effect, indemnify any person who is or was or
has agreed to become a director or officer of the Company and who is or was made
or threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any threatened, pending or
completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or
investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Company to procure
a judgment in its favor and an action by or in the right of any other
corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any partnership, joint
venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, which such person is
serving, has served or has agreed to serve in any capacity at the request of the
Company, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become
a director or officer of the Company, or is or was serving or has agreed to
serve such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
benefit plan or other enterprise in any capacity, against judgments, fines,
amounts paid or to be paid in settlement, taxes or penalties, and costs, charges
and expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred in connection with such action
or proceeding or any appeal therein, provided, however, that no indemnification
shall be provided to any such person if a judgment or other final adjudication
adverse to the director or officer establishes that (i) his or her acts were
committed in bad faith or were the result of active and deliberate dishonesty
and, in either case, were material to the cause of action so adjudicated, or
(ii) he or she personally gained in fact a financial profit or other advantage
to which he or she was not legally entitled. The benefits of this Paragraph A
shall extend to the heirs and legal representatives of any person entitled to
indemnification under this paragraph.
B. The Company may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of
Directors, or by a committee comprised of members of the Board or members of
management as the Board may designate for such purpose, provide indemnification
to employees or agents of the Company who are not officers or directors of the
Company with such scope and effect as determined by the Board, or such
committee.
C. The Company may indemnify any person to whom the Company is permitted by
applicable law to provide indemnification or the advancement of expenses,
whether pursuant to rights granted pursuant to, or provided by, the New York
Business Corporation Law or other rights created by (i) a resolution of
shareholders, (ii) a resolution of directors, or (iii) an agreement providing
for such indemnification, it being expressly intended that these By-laws
authorize the creation of other rights in any such manner. The right to be
indemnified and to the reimbursement or advancement of expenses incurred in
defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition authorized by this
Paragraph C shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have
or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation, By-laws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested
directors or otherwise.
D. The right to indemnification conferred by Paragraph A shall, and any
indemnification extended under Paragraph B or Paragraph C may, be retroactive to
events occurring prior to the adoption of this Article XI, to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law.
E. This Article XI may be amended, modified or repealed either by action of the
Board of Directors of the Company or by the vote of the shareholders.
 
Article XII
Amendments of By-laws
These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed, at any time, in the manner
provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of this Company.
Article XIII
Emergency By-law
A. This Emergency By-law shall become effective if the Defense Council of New
York, as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act now in
effect or as it may hereafter be amended from time to time, shall order the
effectiveness of emergency By-laws of New York Corporations and shall cease to
be effective when the Council shall so declare. This Emergency By-law may also
become effective in the manner outlined in Section E of this Article.
B. In the event this Emergency By-law shall become effective, the business of
the Company shall continue to be managed by those members of the Board of
Directors in office at the time the emergency arises who are available to act
during the emergency. If less than three such Directors are available to act,
additional Directors, in whatever number is necessary to constitute a Board of
three Directors, shall be selected automatically from the first available
officers or employees in the order provided in the emergency succession list
established by the Board of Directors and in effect at the time an emergency
arises.
C. For the purposes of Sections B and D(3) of this Article, a Director shall be
deemed unavailable to act if he shall fail to attend a Directors meeting called
in the manner provided in Section D(l) of this Article. This section, however,
shall not affect in any way the right of a Director in office at the time an
emergency arises to continue as a Director.
D. The Board of Directors shall be governed by the following basic procedures
and shall have the following specific powers in addition to all other powers
which it would otherwise have.
 
1. Meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by any Director, or by the
first available officer or employee in the order provided in the emergency
succession list referred to in Section B of this Article, by mailing to all
Directors written notice thereof at their residence or place of business at
least two days before the meeting and by using other reasonably available means
of communication in an effort to contact each Director.
 
2. Three Directors shall constitute a quorum which may in all cases act by
majority vote.
 
3. If the number of Directors who are available to act shall drop below three,
additional Directors, in whatever number is necessary to constitute a Board of
three Directors, shall be selected automatically from the first available
officers or employees in the order provided in the emergency succession list
referred to in Section B of this Article.
 
4. Additional Directors, beyond the minimum number of three Directors, but not
more than three additional Directors, may be elected from any officers or
employees on the emergency succession list referred to in Section B of this
Article.
 
5. Any Director, other than a Director in office at the time an emergency
arises, may be removed by a majority vote.
 
6. The Board of Directors may establish any additional procedures and may amend
any of the provisions of this Article concerning the interim management of the
affairs of the Company in an emergency if it considers it to be in the best
interests of the Company to do so, except that it may not change Sections C or
D(5) of this Article in any manner which excludes from participation any person
who was a Director in office at the time an emergency arises.
 
7. To the extent that it considers it practical to do so, the Board of
Directors shall manage the business of the Company during an emergency in a
manner which is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws. It
is recognized, however, that in an emergency it may not always be practical to
act in this manner and this Emergency By-law is intended to and hereby empowers
the Board of Directors with the maximum authority possible under the New York
State Defense Emergency Act, and all other applicable law, to conduct the
interim management of the affairs of the Company in an emergency in what it
considers to be in the best interests of the Company.
 
E. If an obvious defense emergency exists because of an enemy attack and, if by
reason of the emergency, the Defense Council of New York is itself unable to
order the effectiveness of emergency by-laws as contemplated by Section A of
this Article, then:
 
1. A quorum of the Board of Directors pursuant to Article II of these By-laws
may order the effectiveness of this Emergency By-law or
 
2. If a quorum of the Board of Directors pursuant to Article II of these
By-laws is not present at the first Board of Directors meeting called, in the
manner provided in Section D(l) of this Article, after an emergency arises, then
the provisions of this Emergency By-law shall automatically become effective and
shall remain in effect until it is practical for a normally constituted Board of
Directors to resume management of the business of the Company.

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
SECTION 1.    PURPOSE
 
The purposes of this GE 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) are to encourage selected Salaried Employees of General Electric Company (together with any successor thereto, the Company) and its Affiliates (as defined below) to acquire a proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company, to generate an increased incentive to contribute to the Companys future success and prosperity, thus enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of its shareowners, and to enhance the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract and retain exceptionally qualified individuals upon whom, in large measure, the sustained progress, growth and profitability of the Company depend.
 
SECTION 2.    DEFINITIONS
 
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
(a)
 
Affiliate shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by the Company and (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee.
 
(b)
 
Award shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent, or Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.
 
(c)
 
Award Agreement shall mean any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document, including an electronic communication, as may from time to time be designated by the Company as evidencing any Award granted under the Plan.
 
(d)
 
Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
(e)
 
Committee shall mean a committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting in accordance with the provisions of Section 3, designated by the Board to administer the Plan and composed of not less than three non-employee directors.
 
(f)
 
Dividend Equivalent shall mean any right granted under Section 6(e) of the Plan.
 
(g)
 
Fair Market Value shall mean, with respect to any Shares or other securities, the closing price of a Share on the date as of which the determination is being made or as otherwise determined in a manner specified by the Committee.
 
(h)
 
Incentive Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Sections 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.
 
(i)
 
1990 Plan shall mean the Companys 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
(j)
 
Non-Qualified Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(k)
 
Option shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
 
(l)
 
Other Stock-Based Award shall mean any right granted under Section 6(f) of the Plan.
 
(m)
 
Participant shall mean a Salaried Employee designated to be granted an Award under the Plan.
 
(n)
 
Performance Award shall mean any right granted under Section 6(d) of the Plan.
 
(o)
 
Performance Criteria shall mean any quantitative and/or qualitative measures, as determined by the Committee, which may be used to measure the level of performance of the Company or any individual Participant during a Performance Period, including any Qualifying Performance Criteria.
 
(p)
 
Performance Period shall mean any period as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
(q)
 
Person shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or political subdivision thereof.
 
(r)
 
Qualifying Performance Criteria shall mean one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the company as a whole or to a business unit or related company, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to a previous years results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee in the Award: sales, revenue, net income, net earnings, earnings per share, return on total capital, return on equity, cash flow, operating profit and margin rate, subject to adjustment by the Committee to remove the effect of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items and all items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence, related to the disposal of a segment or a business, or related to a change in accounting principle or otherwise.
 
(s)
 
Restricted Securities shall mean Awards of Restricted Stock or other Awards under which issued and outstanding Shares are held subject to certain restrictions.
 
(t)
 
Restricted Stock shall mean any award of Shares granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan.
 
(u)
 
Restricted Stock Unit shall mean any right granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan that is denominated in Shares.
 
(v)
 
Salaried Employee shall mean any salaried employee of the Company or of any Affiliate.
 
(w)
 
Shares shall mean the common shares of the Company, $0.06 par value, and such other securities as may become the subject of Awards, or become subject to Awards, pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 4(b) of the Plan.
 
(x)
 
Stock Appreciation Right shall mean any right granted under Section 6(b) of the Plan.
 
SECTION 3.    ADMINISTRATION
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the power to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules and guidelines for implementing the terms of the Plan as it may deem appropriate. The Committee shall have the ability to modify the Plan provisions, to the extent necessary, or delegate such authority, to accommodate any changes in law and regulations in jurisdictions in which Participants will receive Awards.
 
(a)
 
Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to:
 
(i)
 
designate Participants;
 
(ii)
 
determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant under the Plan;
 
(iii)
 
determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with) Awards;
 
(iv)
 
determine the terms and conditions of any Award;
 
(v)
 
determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, or other Awards, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended;
 
(vi)
 
determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee;
 
(vii)
 
interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan;
 
(viii)
 
establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and guidelines;
 
(ix)
 
appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan;
 
(x)
 
make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan; and
 
(xi)
 
correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan into effect.
 
(b)
 
Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Affiliate, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any shareowner, and any employee of the Company or of any Affiliate. Actions of the Committee may be taken by:
 
(i)
 
the Chairman of the Committee;
 
(ii)
 
a subcommittee, designated by the Committee;
 
(iii)
 
the Committee but with one or more members abstaining or recusing himself or herself from acting on the matter, so long as two or more members remain to act on the matter. Such action, authorized by such a subcommittee or by the Committee upon the abstention or recusal of such members, shall be the action of the Committee for purposes of the Plan; or
 
(iv)
 
one or more officers or managers of the Company or any Affiliate, or a committee of such officers or managers whose authority is subject to such terms and limitations set forth by the Committee, and only with respect to Salaried Employees who are not officers or directors of the Company for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This delegation shall include modifications necessary to accommodate changes in the laws or regulations of jurisdictions outside the U.S.
 
SECTION 4.    SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS
 
(a)
 
SHARES AVAILABLE. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b):
 
(i)
 
The total number of shares of Common Stock reserved and available for delivery pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be 500,000,000; of which no more than 250,000,000 may be available for Awards granted in any form provided for under the Plan other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights. If any Shares covered by an Award granted under the Plan, or to which such an Award or award relates, are forfeited, or if an Award or award otherwise terminates without the delivery of Shares or of other consideration, then the Shares covered by such Award or award, or to which such Award or award relates, or the number of Shares otherwise counted against the aggregate number of Shares available under the Plan with respect to such Award or award, to the extent of any such forfeiture or termination, shall again be available for granting Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b), no more than 500,000,000 Shares shall be available for delivery pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options.
 
  
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, any Award made under the 1990 Plan before the expiration of the 1990 Plan shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the 1990 Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
 
(ii)
 
ACCOUNTING FOR AWARDS. For purposes of this Section 4,
 
(A)
 
if an Award (other than a Dividend Equivalent) is denominated in Shares, the number of Shares covered by such Award, or to which such Award relates, shall be counted on the date of grant of such Award against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan; and
 
(B)
 
Dividend Equivalents denominated in Shares and Awards not denominated, but potentially payable, in Shares shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan in such amount and at such time as the Dividend Equivalents and such Awards are settled in Shares, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Awards that operate in tandem with (whether granted simultaneously with or at a different time from), or that are substituted for, other Awards or awards granted under the 1990 Plan may only be counted once against the aggregate number of shares available, and the Committee shall adopt procedures, as it deems appropriate, in order to avoid double counting. Any Shares that are delivered by the Company, and any Awards that are granted by, or become obligations of, the Company through the assumption by the Company or an Affiliate of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company, shall not be counted against the Shares available for granting Awards under this Plan.
 
(C)
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committees permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan if such Shares are: (x) Shares that were subject to an Option or a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, (y) Shares delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the exercise price or the withholding taxes under Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or (z) Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise.
 
(iii)
 
SOURCES OF SHARES DELIVERABLE UNDER AWARDS. Any Shares delivered pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares.
 
(b)
 
ADJUSTMENTS.
 
(i)
 
In the event that the Committee shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, or other securities), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event constitutes an equity restructuring transaction, as that term is defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised) or otherwise affects the Shares, then the Committee shall adjust the following in a manner that is determined by the Committee to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan:
 
(A)
 
the number and type of Shares or other securities which thereafter may be made the subject of Awards including the limit specified in Section 4(a)(i) regarding the number of shares that may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Awards, or Other Stock-Based Awards;
 
(B)
 
the number and type of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards;
 
(C)
 
the number and type of Shares or other securities specified as the annual per-participant limitation under Section 6(g)(v) and (vi);
 
(D)
 
the grant, purchase, or exercise price with respect to any Award, or, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; and
 
(E)
 
other value determinations applicable to outstanding awards.
 
  
 
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, in each case, that with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Sections 422(b)(1) of the Code or any successor provision thereto; and PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that the number of Shares subject to any Award denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number.
 
(ii)
 
ADJUSTMENTS OF AWARDS UPON CERTAIN ACQUISITIONS. In the event the Company or any Affiliate shall assume outstanding employee awards or the right or obligation to make future such awards in connection with the acquisition of another business or another corporation or business entity, the Committee may make such adjustments, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, in the terms of Awards as it shall deem appropriate in order to achieve reasonable comparability or other equitable relationship between the assumed awards and the Awards granted under the Plan as so adjusted.
 
(iii)
 
ADJUSTMENTS OF AWARDS UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN UNUSUAL OR NONRECURRING EVENTS. The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company, any Affiliate, or the financial statements of the Company or any Affiliate, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits to be made available under the Plan.
 
SECTION 5.    ELIGIBILITY
 
Any Salaried Employee, including any officer or employee-director of the Company or of any Affiliate, who is not a member of the Committee shall be eligible to be designated a Participant.
 
SECTION 6.    AWARDS
 
(a)
 
OPTIONS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Options to Participants with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions, in either case not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine:
 
(i)
 
EXERCISE PRICE. The purchase price per Share purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, and except as provided in Section 4(b), that such purchase price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option.
 
(ii)
 
OPTION TERM. The term of each Option shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant.
 
(iii)
 
TIME AND METHOD OF EXERCISE. The Committee shall establish in the applicable Award Agreement the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, and the method or methods by which, and the form or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other Awards, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant exercise price, in which, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may be made or deemed to have been made.
 
(iv)
 
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. The terms of any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be designed to comply in all respects with the provisions of Sections 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6(a) to the contrary, Options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall not be eligible for treatment under the Code as Incentive Stock Options (and will be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options) to the extent that either (1) the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares (determined as of the time of grant) with respect to which such Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, taking Options into account in the order in which they were granted, or (2) such Options otherwise remain exercisable but are not exercised within three (3) months of termination of employment (or such other period of time provided in Section 422 of the Code).
 
(b)
 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Participants. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, a Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall confer on the holder thereof a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over (ii) the grant price of the right as specified by the Committee
 
(i)
 
GRANT PRICE. Shall be determined by the Committee, provided, however, and except as provided in Section 4(b), that such price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right, except that if a Stock Appreciation Right is at any time granted in tandem to an Option, the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right shall not be less than the exercise price of such Option.
 
(ii)
 
TERM. The term of each Stock Appreciation Right shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant.
 
(iii)
 
TIME AND METHOD OF EXERCISE. The Committee shall establish in the applicable Award Agreement the time or times at which a Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised in whole or in part.
 
(c)
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
 
(i)
 
ISSUANCE. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to Participants.
 
(ii)
 
RESTRICTIONS. Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may establish in the applicable Award Agreement (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate. Unrestricted Shares, evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate, shall be delivered to the holder of Restricted Stock promptly after such restrictions have lapsed.
 
(iii)
 
REGISTRATION. Any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is issued in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan, such certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
 
(iv)
 
FORFEITURE. Upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period, except as determined otherwise by the Committee, all Shares of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock Units still, in either case, subject to restriction shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company.
 
(d)
 
PERFORMANCE AWARDS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Performance Awards to Participants. Performance Awards include arrangements under which the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or transferability of any Award is subject to such Performance Criteria and such additional conditions or terms as the Committee may designate. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, a Performance Award granted under the Plan:
 
(i)
 
may be denominated or payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock), other securities, or other Awards; and
 
(ii)
 
shall confer on the holder thereof rights valued as determined by the Committee and payable to, or exercisable by, the holder of the Performance Award, in whole or in part, upon the achievement of such performance goals during such Performance Periods as the Committee shall establish.
 
(e)
 
DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Participants Awards under which the holders thereof shall be entitled to receive payments equivalent to dividends or interest with respect to a number of Shares determined by the Committee, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, such Awards may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
 
(f)
 
OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Participants such other Awards that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, provided, however, that such grants must comply with applicable law. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Shares or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase right granted under this Section 6(f) shall be purchased for such consideration, which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, or other Awards, or any combination thereof, as the Committee shall determine, the value of which consideration, as established by the Committee, and except as provided in Section 4(b), shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Shares or other securities as of the date such purchase right is.
 
(g)
 
GENERAL.
 
(i)
 
NO CASH CONSIDERATION FOR AWARDS. Awards shall be granted for no cash consideration or for such minimal cash consideration as may be required by applicable law.
 
(ii)
 
AWARDS MAY BE GRANTED SEPARATELY OR TOGETHER. Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution for any other Award or any award granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards, or in addition to or in tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate, may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
 
(iii)
 
FORMS OF PAYMENT UNDER AWARDS. Subject to the terms of the Plan and of any applicable Award Agreement, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate upon the grant, exercise, or payment of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, rights in or to Shares issuable under the Award or other Awards, other securities, or other Awards, or any combination thereof, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee. Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents in respect of installment or deferred payments.
 
(iv)
 
LIMITS ON TRANSFER OF AWARDS. Except as provided by the Committee, no Award and no right under any such Award, shall be assignable, alienable, saleable, or transferable by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution provided, however, that, if so determined by the Committee, a Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the Participant with respect to any Award upon the death of the Participant. Each Award, and each right under any Award, shall be exercisable, during the Participants lifetime, only by the Participant or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participants guardian or legal representative. No Award and no right under any such Award, may be pledged, alienated, attached, or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment, or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate.
 
(v)
 
PER-PERSON LIMITATION ON OPTIONS AND SARs. The number of Shares with respect to which Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted under the Plan during any three-year period to an individual Participant shall not exceed 9,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b).
 
(vi)
 
PER-PERSON LIMITATION ON CERTAIN AWARDS. Other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted under the Plan during any three-year period to an individual Participant shall not exceed 3,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b).
 
(vii)
 
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS UPON SECURITIES SUBJECT TO AWARDS. The Committee may provide that the Shares issued upon exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or otherwise subject to or issued under an Award shall be subject to such further agreements, restrictions, conditions or limitations as the Committee in its discretion may specify prior to the exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the grant, vesting or settlement of such Award, including without limitation, conditions on vesting or transferability and forfeiture or repurchase provisions or provisions on payment of taxes arising in connection with an Award. Without limiting the foregoing, such restrictions may address the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Shares issued under an Award, including without limitation: (A) restrictions under an insider trading policy or pursuant to applicable law, (B) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and holders of other Company equity compensation arrangements, (C) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers and (D) provisions requiring Shares to be sold on the open market or to the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations.
 
(viii)
 
SHARE CERTIFICATES. All Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable Federal, state, or local securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
 
SECTION 7.    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement or in the Plan:
 
(a)
 
AMENDMENTS TO THE PLAN. The Board of Directors of the Company may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part; provided, however, that without the prior approval of the Companys shareowners, no material amendment shall be made if shareowner approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange, and; PROVIDED, FURTHER, that, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation, or termination shall be made without the approval of the shareowners of the Company that would:
 
(i)
 
increase the total number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan, except as provided in Section 4 hereof; or
 
(ii)
 
except as provided in Section 4(b), permit Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, or other Stock-Based Awards encompassing rights to purchase Shares to be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the grant price of a previously granted Stock Appreciation Right, or the purchase price of a previously granted Other Stock-Based Award.
 
(b)
 
AMENDMENTS TO AWARDS. The Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate, any Awards theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively. No such amendment or alteration shall be made which would impair the rights of any Participant, without such Participants consent, under any Award theretofore granted, provided that no such consent shall be required with respect to any amendment or alteration if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such amendment or alteration either (i) is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Award to satisfy or conform to any law or regulation or to meet the requirements of any accounting standard, or (ii) is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under such Award.
 
SECTION 8.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
(a)
 
NO RIGHTS TO AWARDS. No Salaried Employee, Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, or, having been selected to receive an Award under this Plan, to be selected to receive a future Award, and further there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Salaried Employees, Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
 
(b)
 
WITHHOLDING. The Company or any Affiliate shall be authorized to withhold from any Award granted or any payment due or transfer made under any Award or under the Plan the amount (in cash, Shares, other securities, or other Awards) of withholding taxes due in respect of an Award, its exercise, or any payment or transfer under such Award or under the Plan and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company or Affiliate to satisfy statutory withholding obligations for the payment of such taxes.
 
(c)
 
NO LIMIT ON OTHER COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS. Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Affiliate from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
(d)
 
NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT. The grant of an Award shall not constitute an employment contract nor be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any liability, or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
 
(e)
 
GOVERNING LAW. The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and applicable Federal law without regard to conflict of law.
 
(f)
 
SEVERABILITY. If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person, or Award, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
 
(g)
 
NO TRUST OR FUND CREATED. Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
 
(h)
 
NO FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash, or other securities shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares, or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
 
(i)
 
HEADINGS. Headings are given to the Sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
 
(j)
 
INDEMNIFICATION. Subject to requirements of New York State law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a Committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Section 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Companys approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his/her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his/her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
(k)
 
COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Except to the extent specifically provided otherwise by the Committee, Awards under the Plan are intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (and the Treasury Department guidance and regulations issued thereunder) so as to avoid the imposition of any additional taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code. If the Committee determines that an Award, Award Agreement, payment, distribution, deferral election, transaction or any other action or arrangement contemplated by the provisions of the Plan would, if undertaken, cause a Participant to become subject to any additional taxes or other penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then unless the Committee specifically provides otherwise, such Award, Award Agreement, payment, distribution, deferral election, transaction or other action or arrangement shall not be given effect to the extent it causes such result and the related provisions of the Plan and/or Award Agreement will be deemed modified, or, if necessary, suspended in order to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the extent determined appropriate by the Committee, in each case without the consent of or notice to the Participant.
 
(l)
 
NO REPRESENTATIONS OR COVENANTS WITH RESPECT TO TAX QUALIFICATION. Although the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify an Award for favorable U.S. or foreign tax treatment (e.g., incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code or French qualified stock options) or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment (e.g., under Section 409A of the Code), the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment. The Company shall be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on holders of Awards under the Plan.
 
(m)
 
AWARDS TO NON-U.S. EMPLOYEES. The Committee shall have the power and authority to determine which Affiliates shall be covered by this Plan and which employees outside the U.S. shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Committee may adopt, amend or rescind rules, procedures or sub-plans relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws, procedures, and practices. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee is specifically authorized to adopt rules, procedures and sub-plans with provisions that limit or modify rights on death, disability or retirement or on termination of employment; available methods of exercise or settlement of an award; payment of income, social insurance contributions and payroll taxes; the withholding procedures and handling of any stock certificates or other indicia of ownership which vary with local requirements. The Committee may also adopt rules, procedures or sub-plans applicable to particular Affiliates or locations.
 
(n)
 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or stock exchanges on which the Company is listed as may be required. The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to:
 
(i)
 
obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and
 
(ii)
 
completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable or at a time when any such registration or qualification is not current, has been suspended or otherwise has ceased to be effective.
 
  
 
The inability or impracticability of the Company to obtain or maintain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Companys counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
SECTION 9.    EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE PLAN
 
The Plan shall be effective as of the date of its approval by the shareowners of the Company.
 
SECTION 10.    TERM OF THE PLAN
 
No Award shall be granted under the Plan after the date of the Annual Meeting of the Company in 2017. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award, and the authority of the Board of Directors of the Company to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such date.
 

Exhibit 10.2

Exhibit 10.3

Exhibit 10.4
1.
 
Grant.
The Management Development and Compensation Committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company (Company) has granted Restricted Stock Units with Dividend Equivalents (RSUs) to the named individual (Grantee). Each RSU entitles the Grantee to receive from the Company (i) one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 per share, (ii) quarterly cash payments equivalent to the dividend paid to shareholders of such stock, each in accordance with the terms of this Grant, the GE 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan (Plan), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.
2.
 
Restricted Stock Units.
The Company will deliver to the Grantee one share of General Electric Company common stock, par value $0.06 for each RSU of the Grant for which the restrictions set forth in paragraph 4 lapse in accordance with their terms.
3.
 
Dividend Equivalents.
Until the Grantees employment with the Company and its affiliates is terminated for any reason, or until such time as the following restrictions lapse, whichever occurs first, the Company will pay the Grantee a cash amount equal to the number of RSUs subject to restriction times the per share quarterly dividend payments made to shareholders of the Companys Common Stock, with such payments to be made reasonably promptly after the payment date of each quarterly dividend.
4.
 
Restrictions.
Restrictions on the RSUs will lapse on the designated Restriction Lapse Dates only if the Grantee has been continuously employed by the Company or one of its affiliates to such dates. The Committee may, in circumstances determined in its sole discretion, provide for the lapse of the above restrictions at earlier dates. Notwithstanding the forgoing, restrictions on all RSUs will immediately lapse upon the Grantees termination of employment with the Company or any of its affiliates by reason of the Grantees death, provided the Grantee had been continuously employed as provided above to the date of termination.
5.
 
Alteration/Termination.
The Company shall have the right at any time in its sole discretion to amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any RSUs without the consent of the Grantee. Also, any RSUs for which the restrictions do not lapse in accordance with the terms in paragraph 4 above shall be canceled.
6.
 
Plan Terms.
All terms used in this Grant have the same meaning as given such terms in the Plan. This grant incorporates and is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which will be furnished upon request, and such provisions shall be deemed a part of the Grant for all purposes.
 
7.
 
Entire Agreement.
This Grant, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contain all of the provisions applicable to the RSUs and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized office of the Company and delivered to the Grantee.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.

Exhibit 10.5
Attainment of the performance goals will be determined solely by the Committee and will be based on the financial performance results, adjusted for any unusual items, of the Company, all as defined and interpreted by the Committee.
In calculating the actual amount of the payment, if any, that will be payable hereunder, each of the performance measurements will be weighted equally (i.e., 25%), and payment will be prorated if financial performance falls between goals. Payment will be reduced by any taxes that must be paid or withheld as determined by the Company.

Exhibit 10.6
Grant Date: XXX
Restriction Lapse Date: XXX
Value on Grant Date: XXX
Dividend Equivalents: XXX
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.


