FILE:GE/GE-8K-20070413073905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 13, 2007, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs first-quarter 2007 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99     Press release, dated: April 13, 2007, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
Fairfield, Conn., April 13, 2007
- GE announced today record first-quarter 2007 earnings from continuing operations of $4.5 billion or $.44 per share, up 8% and 10%, respectively, from first quarter 2006. Revenues from continuing operations were $40.2 billion, up 6%, increasing 8% organically.
 
Infrastructure and Commercial Finance had strong quarters, and combined with the continued turnaround at NBC Universal, we delivered another quarter of double-digit EPS growth, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. Demand for global infrastructure in our Energy, Aviation and Oil & Gas businesses helped Infrastructure deliver 28% segment profit growth, while asset and earnings growth in Capital Solutions and Real Estate led to 21% segment profit growth at Commercial Finance. Our global growth was strong with developing markets revenues of $7 billion and total global revenues of $19.6 billion, increasing 14% and 9%, respectively.
We delivered our ninth straight quarter of organic revenue growth of 2-3 times global GDP. Specifically, services revenues grew 10% and our Imagination Breakthrough programs contributed $5 billion of revenue - all driven by our growth initiative, Immelt said.
Total orders for the company were up 3%, reflecting comparable first quarter 2006 orders that were particularly robust. Major equipment backlog grew to $37 billion, up 32% year-over-year, and increasing $5 billion from year-end 2006. Major equipment orders were 50% greater than shipments in the quarter, providing highly visible future organic growth. This growing installed base is creating strong demand for the companys services. Services orders were up 11%, and Customer Service Agreement (CSA) backlog stands at $94 billion, an increase of 9% year-over-year.
 
 
1
 
Segment profit grew 13% and segment operating profit margin increased 130 basis points to 14.4%, on track to meet the companys goal of 100 basis points of margin expansion for the year. Improving margins are driving higher returns. ROTC grew 100 basis points to 18.1%.
GE Moneys earnings were tempered by challenges at its U.S. mortgage business (WMC), and Healthcare had a temporary regulatory suspension on shipments of its surgical supplies that affected their performance. Both of these businesses are in great shape and should rebound during the remainder of the year, Immelt said. Our ability to deliver such a solid quarter with these short-term headwinds truly demonstrates the breadth, strength and diversity of our businesses.
 
As communicated at the December investor meeting, we expect to generate $1-2 billion in total gains from dispositions for the year. These gains will be used primarily for restructuring actions to make our businesses more efficient and more profitable, Immelt said.
In the first quarter, the company realized a $0.6 billion pre-tax gain from the sale of its common stock in Swiss Re.
At the same time, the company incurred several significant costs, including a $0.2 billion charge for an asbestos-related legal ruling and $0.4 billion of restructuring and other charges, including $0.1 billion for Industrial, $0.1 billion for Infrastructure, and $0.1 billion for Commercial Finance and GE Money. These items affected the GE and GE Capital Services earnings contributions for the quarter. Additionally, the companys consolidated tax rate was 17%, in line with its expectations.
 
First-Quarter 2007 Financial Highlights:
Earnings from continuing operations
were a record $4.5 billion, up 8% from $4.2 billion in first quarter 2006. EPS from continuing operations were $.44, up 10% from last years $.40. GEs Infrastructure and Commercial Finance businesses contributed strong double-digit earnings growth for the quarter.
Including the effects of discontinued operations, first-quarter net earnings were $4.5 billion ($.44 per share) in 2007 and $4.4 billion ($.42 per share) in first quarter 2006.
Continuing revenues
grew 6% to a record $40.2 billion. Financial services revenues grew 16% over last year to $17.3 billion, reflecting core growth and the net effects of acquisitions. Industrial sales were $22.9 billion, an increase of 7% from first quarter 2006 excluding the net effects of dispositions and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2006 Olympics broadcasts, and down 1% including those effects.
Cash
generated from GEs operating activities in the first three months of 2007 totaled $7.4 billion, up 10% from $6.7 billion last year, reflecting a 14% increase in GE Capital Services dividends, including proceeds from sales of insurance holdings; and a 6% increase from the industrial businesses.
We expect to continue to deliver consistent, double-digit earnings growth with expanding margins and increasing returns in 2007. As reflected by our first-quarter results, our businesses are capitalizing on the big drivers of the global economy, Immelt said. For the second quarter, we expect to deliver EPS from continuing operations of $.52-.54, up 8-13% over comparable 2006 earnings. For the full year 2007, we are reaffirming our guidance of EPS from continuing operations of $2.18-2.23, an increase of 10-12%.
 
 
2
 
GE will discuss preliminary first-quarter results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Call information is available at www.ge.com/investor, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at
www.ge.com
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and commodity and equity prices; the commercial and consumer credit environment; the impact of regulation and regulatory and legal actions; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
Investor Contact:
Dan Janki, 203.373.2468 (office)
dan.janki@ge.com 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 31, 2007, information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2006 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual06 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2007, compared with the three months ended March 31, 2006; segment operating profit margin excluding the effects of the GE Industrial portion of Corporate items and eliminations; return on average total capital (ROTC), which is calculated using average total shareowners' equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations; and GE Industrial sales excluding the net effects of dispositions and the 2006 Olympics broadcasts. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our 2007 revenue growth without the effects of acquisitions, dispositions, currency exchange rates, the 2006 Olympics broadcasts and the GECS commercial paper interest rate swap adjustment; segment operating profit margin excluding the effects of the GE Industrial portion of Corporate items and eliminations; average total shareowners' equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations; and GE Industrial sales excluding the effects of industrial business dispositions (other than dispositions of businesses acquired for investment) and the 2006 Olympics broadcasts.


