FILE:GE/GE-8K-20070731100104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On July 30, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Keith Sherin, the Chief Financial Officer, as a vice chairman of the Company. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99 Press Release, dated: July 30, 2007, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(3)

Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
30 July 2007
 
GE Appoints Keith Sherin as Vice Chairman
 
FAIRFIELD, Conn., July 30, 2007  GE today announced that it has appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Keith Sherin as a vice chairman of the company.
 
Sherin, 48, a 26-year GE veteran has been CFO since 1998. His responsibilities include finance, tax, treasury, controllership and risk. With the additional role of vice chairman, he will act as an advisor to the GE Board of Directors.
 
Keith is one of the most talented and respected CFOs in the world today, providing clear and thoughtful financial oversight for GE, said Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. Hes a quintessential GE leader and role model for the thousands of financial professionals in GE as well as those beyond our company.
 
Sherin joined GE in 1981 through the GE Financial Management Program in Medium Steam Turbine. After three years he joined the Corporate Audit Staff where he progressed to executive audit manager and later manager of Programs and Planning. He was promoted to manager of Finance for Commercial Engine Operations at GE Aircraft Engines then director of Finance for GE Plastics Europe. In 1995, Sherin joined GE Medical Systems as manager of Global Finance and Financial Services, and less than a year later he was promoted to vice president of Finance and Financial Services Operation. He was appointed senior vice president in December 1998 when he was named chief financial officer.
 
He holds a BS from the University of Notre Dame and an MBA from Columbia University. He serves on the Boards of the GE Foundation (the Companys philanthropic foundation) and the University of Notre Dame Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration.
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work  a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the companys Web site at www.ge.com.
 
Contact
 
General Electric, Fairfield
Russell Wilkerson
203-373-3193 (office)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
 
PRESS CONTACTS
 
General Contact Information
+1 203 373 2039
news@ge.com
 


