FILE:GE/GE-8K-20070119063800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 19, 2007, General Electric Company (GE or we) issued a press release setting forth GEs fourth-quarter and full year 2006 earnings and a discussion of the restatement described in Item 4.02(a) below. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 4.02(a)
 
Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
 
Restatement and non-reliance
 
On the date hereof, GE is filing an amendment to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, to amend and restate financial statements and other financial information for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, and financial information for the years 2002 and 2001, and for each of the quarters in the years 2005 and 2004. In addition, we are filing amendments to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the periods ended September 30, June 30, and March 31, 2006, to amend and restate financial statements for the first three quarters of 2006. The restatement adjusts our accounting for interest rate swap transactions related to a portion of the commercial paper issued by General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) and General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS), each wholly-owned subsidiaries of GE, from January 1, 2001, the date we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
, as amended. The restatement has no effect on our cash flows or liquidity, and its effects on our financial position at the ends of the respective restated periods are immaterial. We have not found that any of our hedge positions were inconsistent with our risk management policies or economic objectives.
 
In light of the restatement, readers should not rely on our previously filed financial statements and other financial information for the years and for each of the quarters in the years 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and for each of the first three quarters of 2006.
 
Background
 
As previously disclosed, the Boston Office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is conducting a formal investigation of our application of SFAS 133. In the course of that investigation, the SEC Enforcement staff raised certain concerns about our accounting for the use of interest rate swaps to fix certain otherwise variable interest costs in a portion of our commercial paper program at GECC and GECS. The SEC Enforcement staff referred such concerns to the Office of Chief Accountant. We and our auditors determined that our accounting for the commercial paper hedging program satisfied the requirements of SFAS 133 and conveyed our views to the staff of the Office of Chief Accountant. Following our discussions, however, the Office of Chief Accountant communicated its view to us that our commercial paper hedging program as structured did not meet the SFAS 133 specificity requirement.
 
 
(2)
 
After considering the staffs view, management recommended to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors that previously reported financial results be restated to eliminate hedge accounting for the interest rate swaps entered into as part of our commercial paper hedging program from January 1, 2001. The Audit Committee discussed and agreed with this recommendation. At a meeting on January 18, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted the recommendation of the Audit Committee and determined that previously reported results for GE should be restated and, therefore, that the previously filed financial statements and other financial information referred to above should not be relied upon. The restatement resulted from a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, namely, that we did not have adequately designed procedures to designate, with the specificity required under SFAS 133, each hedged commercial paper transaction.
 
As of January 1, 2007, we modified our commercial paper hedging program and adopted documentation for interest rate swaps that we believe complies with the requirements of SFAS 133 and remediated the related internal control weakness.
 
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has discussed the matters disclosed in this current report on Form 8-K with KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm.
 
The SEC investigation into our application of SFAS 133 and hedge accounting is continuing. We continue to cooperate fully.
 
Item 7.01
 
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition is also furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01(d)
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits Index
 
Exhibit 99
 
Press release, dated January 19, 2007, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(3)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Fairfield, Conn., January 19, 2007
- GE announced today record full-year 2006 earnings from continuing operations of $20.7 billion or $1.99 per share, up 11% and 13%, respectively, from 2005. Full-year revenues from continuing operations were also a record $163.4 billion, up 10%, increasing 9% organically.
 
With strong performances at Infrastructure, Healthcare and the financial services businesses, GE delivered double-digit growth in earnings and revenues for the quarter and the year, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. NBC Universals turnaround is advancing and Industrial had a good year in spite of continued commodity inflation and competitive challenges at Plastics. We completed the disposition of Advanced Materials in the quarter at a favorable tax rate, which enabled us to accelerate our comprehensive restructuring efforts.
 
For the second straight year, we strengthened our operating leverage and achieved our organic revenue growth target. We expanded our operating profit margin 190 basis points to 18.2% in the fourth quarter, and we increased ROTC 180 basis points to 18.4% for the year, Immelt said. We posted our eighth straight quarter of organic revenue growth of 2-3X GDP.
 
Demand for our services and products continues to grow globally. Our higher-margin services revenues grew 13% for the quarter, and global revenues accounted for $78 billion of revenues for the year, up from approximately $40 billion in 2000.
 
 
(1)
 
We generated total cash flow from operating activities (CFOA) of $24.6 billion in 2006, an increase of 14% over 2005. With this cash, we have invested in the businesses, increased the quarterly dividend for the 31st straight year and purchased $8.1 billion of stock, Immelt said.
 
We continue to execute on our strategy to invest in leadership businesses. Our focus remains on building faster growth, higher margin businesses. Since the beginning of the year, we have announced $15 billion of acquisitions in fast growth platforms in Oil & Gas, Healthcare and Aviation, Immelt said. We continue to exit slower growth and more volatile businesses, and we are currently reviewing the potential disposition of our Plastics business.
 
We still intend to execute on our $5-7 billion buyback plan for 2007. This buyback will be back-end loaded after we complete our business development activity, and we are on track to achieve our 20% ROTC goal by 2008.
 
Restatement
 
GE today is also amending its 2005 Form 10-K to restate its financial position and results of operations for the years 2001 through 2005. GE is also amending its Forms 10-Q for each of the first three quarters of 2006 to restate related interim financial statements. The restatement adjusts GEs accounting for interest rate swaps used to fix certain otherwise variable interest costs in a portion of its financial services commercial paper program. The restatement is based on a determination of the Office of Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission, following discussions with GE and its auditors, that this commercial paper hedging program did not meet the specificity requirement of SFAS 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Accounting issues concerning this program had been referred to that Office in connection with a previously-disclosed SEC investigation relating to derivatives accounting. GE and its auditors had concluded that the companys accounting for the commercial paper hedging program satisfied the requirements of SFAS 133.
 
Keith Sherin, Senior Vice President and CFO, said, Our commercial paper hedge positions were consistent with our risk management policies and economic objectives. While we are disappointed that our program did not meet the technical requirements of SFAS 133, we are committed to the highest standards of controllership and transparency and ensuring appropriate application of SFAS 133. We have corrected our commercial paper hedge policies and documentation, and related internal controls, as of January 1, 2007.
 
The impact of the restatement is as follows:
 
 
 
(2)
 
Highlights of Preliminary Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter 2006 Results (Prior Periods Restated):
 
Full-Year earnings from continuing operations
were a record $20.7 billion, up 11% from $18.7 billion in 2005. EPS from continuing operations were $1.99, up 13% from last years $1.76. Four of GEs six businesses contributed double-digit earnings growth for the year.
 
Full-year continuing revenues
grew 10% to a record $163.4 billion. Industrial sales rose 10% to $99.1 billion, reflecting core growth and the net effects of acquisitions. Financial services revenues grew 11% over last year to $63.6 billion, reflecting core growth and the net effects of acquisitions.
 
Fourth-quarter earnings from continuing operations
were $6.6 billion, up 12% from $5.9 billion in fourth quarter 2005. EPS from continuing operations were $.64 per share, up 14% from last years $.56. Four of GEs six businesses contributed double-digit earnings growth.
 
Fourth-quarter continuing revenues
were $44.6 billion, up 11% from $40.3 billion in fourth quarter 2005. Industrial sales increased 6% to $27.1 billion, primarily reflecting core growth. Financial services revenues grew 16% over last year to $17.1 billion, reflecting core growth and the effects of acquisitions.
 
Cash
generated from GEs operating activities in 2006 totaled $24.6 billion, up 14% from $21.6 billion last year, reflecting a $2.0 billion increase in GE Capital Services dividends, substantially all of which was proceeds from sales of insurance businesses, and a 7% increase from the Industrial businesses.
 
Discontinued Operations
for the fourth quarter was a $3 million loss, which reflected the results of the sale of GE Life late in the quarter, and final adjustments to the June sale of Insurance Solutions. Accordingly, fourth-quarter net earnings were $6.6 billion ($.64 per share) in 2006 and $3.2 billion ($.30 per share) in 2005. For the year, earnings from discontinued operations were $0.2 billion in 2006 compared with a loss of $1.9 billion in 2005. Accordingly, total year net earnings were $20.8 billion ($2.00 per share) in 2006 and $16.7 billion ($1.57 per share) in 2005.
 
2007 Outlook
 
Looking ahead, the global environment remains positive for GE. Our businesses are positioned to capitalize on the drivers of the global economy - demand for infrastructure around the world, growth in emerging markets, favorable demographics, environmentally favorable technology, increasing use of digital connections, and robust liquidity in the financial markets, Immelt said.
 
We begin 2007 with a stronger set of businesses, our key financial metrics heading in the right direction and a cash position that gives us tremendous flexibility, Immelt said. We see full-year 2007 EPS from continuing operations of $2.18-2.23, an increase of 10-12% over comparable 2006 earnings. For 1Q07, we expect to achieve EPS of $.43-.45, up 8-13%. Furthermore, we believe that our strategic moves position GE for sustained growth in the future.
 
GE will discuss preliminary fourth-quarter and full-year results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Call information is available at www.ge.com/investor, and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
 
 
 
(3)
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and advanced materials, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
2006 results are preliminary and quarterly information is unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties which could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices; strategic actions, including dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; unanticipated loss development in our insurance businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
Media Contact:
 
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
 
Dan Janki, 203.373.2468 (office)
dan.janki@ge.com
 
 
 
(4)
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation and restatement matters.
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation and restatement matters.
 
 
 
See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation and restatement matters.
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2006 information is unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "Financial Services (GECS)." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2005 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual05 for further information about consolidation and restatement matters.
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred to organic revenue growth for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006, compared with the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the increase in cash from operating activities from our industrial businesses (or Industrial CFOA) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, compared with the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the operating profit margin increase of our industrial businesses for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006, compared with the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005, and return on average total capital (ROTC), which is calculated using average total shareowners' equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and their reconciliation to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.
 
 
 
We believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our fourth quarter and full year 2006 growth in continuing revenues without the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange rates, without the effects of the 2006 Olympics broadcasts and without the effects of the January 2007 SFAS 133 adjustment. We also believe that investors would find it useful to compare our operating cash flow for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, to the operating cash flow for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, without the impact of GECS dividends, which can vary from period-to-period. Similarly, we believe that investors would find it useful to see the operating profit margin increase of our industrial businesses for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared with the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2005, without the decline in earnings from our principal pension plans.
 
 
U.S. GAAP requires earnings of discontinued operations to be displayed separately in the Statement of Earnings. Accordingly, the numerator used in our calculation of return on average total capital invested excludes those earnings (losses). Further we believe it is appropriate to exclude from the average shareowners' equity component of the denominator the cumulative effect of those earnings (losses) since 2000 (reclassifications for discontinued operations began in 2001), as well as our average net investment in discontinued operations since the second half of 2005. Had we disposed of these operations before mid-2005, proceeds would have been applied to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital; however since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired in the first half of 2005, we have assumed that any proceeds after that time would have been distributed to shareowners by means of share repurchases, thus reducing average total shareowners' equity.


