FILE:GE/GE-8K-20080710141736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On July 10, 2008, General Electric Company (the Company) announced its intent to explore strategic options for its Consumer & Industrial business.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 GE today announced that it is continuing to explore all options for its Consumer & Industrial businesses with a primary focus on spinning-off the entire unit -- Appliances, Lighting and Industrial -- to existing GE shareholders. The Company announced on May 16 that a spin-off was one possible outcome of the strategic review of its Appliances division.
FAIRFIELD, Conn. July 10, 2008
 
As we explored our options for Appliances, it became clear that the fastest, most efficient step we could take in completing the transformation of our Industrial portfolio would be to focus on a possible spin-off of the entire unit, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. This is consistent with the strategy we have been executing to transform the GE portfolio for long-term growth and makes sense for GE shareholders.
While we will continue to consider all opportunities for Consumer & Industrial, focusing on a spin-off makes sense for these great businesses as well. They have integrated processes, distribution and backroom operations, Immelt said. Consumer & Industrial would benefit by keeping a world-class leadership team intact, its employees together and would have the ability to control their own destiny.  I am pleased that Jim Campbell and his team remain committed to this effort."
GE Appliances is a leading innovator in its industry, and has been introducing new products that enhance consumer lifestyles for almost a century. It is recognized for its world-class products like GE Monogram, GE Caf and a wide range of Energy Star certified appliances.  GE Lighting invented the worlds first incandescent light bulb in 1879 and continues to be at the leading edge of lighting innovation with the Reveal, Edison and Energy Smart consumer brands. GEs Industrial technologies have harnessed power and delivered critical services safely and efficiently around the world since 1892.
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, and media content, GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the Company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and commodity and equity prices; the commercial and consumer credit environment; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal actions; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
Media Contact:
 
GE Corporate: Jeff DeMarrais, 203.373.3244 (office); 203.583.2495 (mobile)
 
jeffrey.demarrais@ge.com
 
GE Consumer & Industrial: Kim Freeman, 502.741.2053 (mobile); 502.452.7819 (office)
kim_freeman@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
 
Dan Janki, 203.373.2468 (office)
 
dan.janki@ge.com
 


