FILE:GE/GE-8K-20080711075832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 11, 2008, General Electric Company issued a press release setting forth GEs second-quarter 2008 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibit Index
 
99         Press release, dated: July 11, 2008, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

 
PRESS RELEASE                                                      
 
 GE announced today second quarter 2008 earnings from continuing operations of $5.4 billion with $.54 per share, which was flat year-over-year from second quarter 2007.  Second quarter revenues from continuing operations were $46.9 billion, up 11%. Led by double-digit segment profit growth in our industrial businesses and a strong relative performance in our financial services businesses, we delivered a solid quarter in a volatile environment, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.
Fairfield, Conn., July 11, 2008
Many markets and industries remain healthy, while the U.S. economy is challenged, Immelt said. Opportunities in emerging markets, infrastructure, commodities and global healthcare are creating demand for our businesses, while we fight through the difficulties of a burdened U.S. consumer, a tough housing market, inflation and volatile capital markets. Even with all this uncertainty, we still see growth opportunities ahead.
Total Company orders were $26.9 billion, up 8%.  Major equipment orders grew 4% to $13.7 billion. Major equipment backlog was at $55 billion, an increase of 25%. Services orders were up 19%, and CSA backlog stood at $113 billion, an increase of 17% year-over-year.
 
 
1
 
GE delivered total organic revenue growth of 5%, including Industrial organic revenue growth of 9%,  generated by broad-based services and global market demand.  Service revenues were up 18% and global revenues grew 24%, with emerging market growth of 20%, and 26% in developed countries outside the U.S.
Infrastructure continued to drive the Companys performance with 24% segment profit growth, Immelt said. Energy, Oil & Gas, Transportation and Aviation all generated double-digit segment profit growth, as strong global demand for both products and services continued.
Our financial services businesses are executing well in a tough market. We have a sound and differentiated business model with high quality, senior secured credit; diversification; and deep domain expertise. We are advantaged by a self-funded Triple-A-rating, Immelt said.  Commercial Finance reported segment profit growth of 7%, ahead of expectations, with Real Estate, Capital Solutions and Corporate Financial Services all posting earnings growth. We will continue pursuing high-quality asset growth opportunities using our strong balance sheet, Immelt said.
GE Money came in ahead of our projections, posting a profit decline of 9%. Results included a $222 million increase in the loan loss provision and a decrease of $109 million of securitization in the quarter. We have reached an agreement to sell GE Money Japan, including Lake ($8 billion of assets), and we have recorded an additional $233 million after-tax loss in discontinued operations this quarter associated with this sale. This transaction will allow us to redeploy our resources to faster growth and higher return opportunities, Immelt said.
Healthcare had a much improved quarter with 8% segment profit growth. We had strong global equipment and services growth, and we benefited from the resumed delivery of over 700 units from our OEC surgical business.  The U.S. diagnostic imaging equipment market is still challenging, but it is improving, Immelt said.  NBC Universal had its seventh straight quarter of segment profit growth with an increase of 1%.  A strong Cable performance offset weakness in local media.  We have a successful slate of movies that will benefit us in the second half of the year for which we have already incurred marketing costs.  The Olympics are on track to generate $1 billion in advertising revenue and $700 million of GE industrial sales, Immelt said.
We continue to take actions to improve the Company, Immelt said.  As announced yesterday, and consistent with our focus on a higher growth portfolio, we are reviewing strategic options for the Consumer & Industrial (C&I) business.  While we are exploring several options, we are now considering a spin-off to our shareholders as the best way to maximize value.
In the second quarter, GE recorded $0.4 billion of restructuring and other charges to improve operations and lower its cost structure. The Companys consolidated tax rate was 16%, consistent with the first quarter of 2008 and in line with expectations.
Second Quarter 2008 Financial Highlights:
 
were $5.4 billion, down 4% from $5.6 billion in the second quarter of 2007. EPS from continuing operations were $.54, unchanged from last year.  Segment profit rose 7%, led by GE Infrastructures strong double-digit growth of 24% in the quarter.
Earnings from continuing operations
Including the effects of discontinued operations, second quarter net earnings were $5.1 billion ($.51 per share) in 2008 and $5.4 billion ($.52 per share) in the second quarter of 2007.
 
 
2
 
grew 11% to $46.9 billion. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues grew 11% over last year to $19.1 billion. Industrial sales were $27.8 billion, an increase of 15% from the second quarter of 2007.
Revenues
generated from GE operating activities in the first six months of 2008 totaled $9.3 billion, down 20% from $11.6 billion last year, reflecting a $2.7 billion decrease in GECS dividends due to the non-repeat of a special $2.7 billion dividend related to proceeds from the sale of Swiss Re common stock and GE Life in the first half of 2007. The Company had solid Industrial cash flow from operating activities of $7.3 billion, an increase of 5%, for the first six months of 2008.
Cash
Our business fundamentals remain strong. We have a significant equipment backlog and growing, high margin service revenues. Our products and services help make our customers more productive in times of high energy costs.  We have solid cash flow to reinvest in the businesses, pay an attractive dividend and execute a stock buyback program.  We are positioned for long-term growth.  For the third quarter 2008, we are forecasting EPS from continuing operations of $.50-.54, up 0-8% over comparable 2007 earnings, and reaffirming guidance of $2.20-2.30, up 0-5% for the full year, Immelt said.
GE will discuss preliminary second quarter 2008 results on a conference call and Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today.  Call information is available at , and related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
www.ge.com/investor
 
* * *
GE (NYSE: GE) is Imagination at Work -- a diversified technology, media and financial services company focused on solving some of the worlds toughest problems. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing and security technology to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, and media content. GE serves customers in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide.  For more information, visit the Company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and commodity and equity prices; the commercial and consumer credit environment; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal actions; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
Investor Contact:
Dan Janki, 203.373.2468 (office)
dan.janki@ge.com
 
3
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Condensed Statement of Earnings
 
(a)       Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2007 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual07 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
4
 
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Condensed Statement of Earnings
 
(a)       Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See note 1 to the 2007 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual07 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
June 30, 2008 information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See note 1 to the 2007 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/annual07 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
8
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to organic revenue growth for the three months ended June 30, 2008, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2007; Industrial organic revenue growth for the three months ended June 30, 2008, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2007; growth in industrial cash from operating activities (Industrial CFOA) for the six months ended June 30, 2008, compared with the six months ended June 30, 2007, and return on average total capital (ROTC), which is calculated using average total shareowners equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations. The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measure follows.
 
 
 
Organic revenue growth measures revenue excluding the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions and currency exchange rates for comparison of current period results with the corresponding period of the prior year. We believe this measure provides management and investors with a more complete understanding of underlying operating results and trends of established, ongoing operations by excluding the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange, which activities are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying trends. We also believe that presenting organic revenue growth separately for our Industrial businesses provides management and investors with useful information about the trends of our industrial businesses and enables a more direct comparison to other non-financial businesses and companies. Management recognizes that the term organic revenue growth may be interpreted differently by other companies and under different circumstances. Although this may have an effect on comparability of absolute percentage growth from company to company, we believe that these measures are useful in assessing trends of the respective businesses or companies and may therefore be a useful tool in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GECS services for material procurement, trade receivables management and factoring; buildings and equipment leasing by GE from GECS; information technology and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; medical equipment manufactured by GE that is leased by GECS to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believe that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements filed in our Form 10-Q of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows statement. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our Industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
Our ROTC calculation excludes earnings (losses) of discontinued operations from the numerator because U.S. GAAP requires us to display those earnings (losses) in the Statement of Earnings. We exclude the cumulative effect of earnings (losses) of discontinued operations from the denominator in our ROTC calculation (1) for each of the periods for which related discontinued operations were presented, and (2) for our average net investment in discontinued operations since July 1, 2005.  Had we disposed of these operations before July 1, 2005, we would have applied the proceeds to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital. However, since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired by June 30, 2005, we have assumed that we would have distributed the proceeds after that time to shareowners through share repurchases, thus reducing average total shareowners equity. Our calculation of average total shareholders equity may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  We believe it is a more clear way to measure the ongoing trend in return on total capital for the continuing operations of our businesses given the extent that discontinued operations have affected our reported results. We believe that this results in a more relevant measure for management and investors to evaluate performance of our continuing operations, on a consistent basis, and to evaluate and compare the performance of our continuing operations with the ongoing operations of other businesses and companies.
 
 
8


