FILE:GE/GE-8K-20090227160103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On February 27, 2009, General Electric Company (GE) issued a press release announcing that its board of directors plans to reduce GEs quarterly dividend to $.10 per share starting in the second half of 2009. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being filed as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99 Press release, dated: February 27, 2009, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
--The Board of Directors of General Electric Company (NYSE:GE) today authorized a plan to reduce the Companys quarterly dividend to $.10 from $0.31 per outstanding share of the Company's common stock, effective for the second half of 2009.  This decision will preserve approximately $9 billion for the Company on an annualized basis.
Fairfield, Conn., February 27, 2009
We recognize the importance of the dividend to our shareholders and the significance of this decision, but we believe it is the right precautionary action at this time to further strengthen our Company for the long-term, while still providing an attractive dividend, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.
The revised dividend is competitive and reflects what we believe is an appropriate payout in todays market, Immelt said.  The Company continues to execute well and generate strong cash flow, even in this tough environment.  We have achieved all of our capital and liquidity goals ahead of plan, including lower commercial paper, reduced leverage ratios and solid debt funding.
We have made tremendous progress in strengthening GEs balance sheet to ensure that the Company is well-capitalized and with access to ample liquidity, Immelt said.  At the February 6 Board meeting, we announced we would evaluate the dividend for the second half of 2009 in light of current market conditions.  After extensive review, we have determined that reducing the dividend, while still maintaining it at a competitive level, is a prudent measure to further enhance our balance sheet and provide us with additional flexibility for potential future opportunities.  With these actions and the others we have taken to keep the Company safe and secure, we currently do not have any plans to raise more equity.
 
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.ge.com.
 
 
 
(1)
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of GE Capitals funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capitals asset levels and commercial paper exposure as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements.  We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
(2)
 
 


