FILE:GE/GE-8K-20090323165603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 23, 2009, General Electric Company (GE) issued a press release responding to the downgrade by Moodys Investors Service of GEs and General Electric Capital Corporations long-term ratings from Aaa to Aa2, with a stable outlook. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being filed as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99 Press release, dated: March 23, 2009, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 Moodys Investors Service today announced a downgrade of General Electric Companys and General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) long-term ratings from Aaa to Aa2, with a stable outlook.  The ratings downgrade does not affect GEs and GECCs short-term funding ratings of Prime-1, which were affirmed by Moodys.  The action follows a thorough review of GEs portfolio by Moodys.
FAIRFIELD, CT  March 23, 2009
Moodys defines obligations rated Aa (1-3) as judged to be of high quality and subject to very low credit risk. In its review, Moodys highlighted that GECC has successfully strengthened its capital and liquidity to better protect its global businesses in this environment.  Moodys also pointed out that GEs industrial businesses will generate strong cash flows during the global economic downturn, and it believes that GEs industrial operations continue to have strong Aaa characteristics, including a diversified portfolio of market-leading businesses that generate strong and durable profits and cash flow through cycles.
Todays action completes the ratings reviews by both Standard & Poors and Moodys resulting in a stable outlook from both agencies.  GE does not anticipate any significant operational or funding impacts from these ratings changes.
This action was not unexpected in the current environment, and while no one likes a downgrade, Moodys, like S&P, confirmed the fundamental soundness of GE Capital and the strength of our industrial businesses, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the
 
 
 
 
 
impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of GE Capitals funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capitals asset levels and commercial paper exposure as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
 
 
(2)
 


