FILE:GE/GE-8K-20090128140718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On January 27, 2009, General Electric Company (GE) issued a press release responding to Moodys announcement that it would review the Aaa long-term ratings of GE and General Electric Capital Corporation for possible downgrade. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being filed as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99 Press release, dated: January 27, 2009, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE                                           
 
Moodys informed us today it has placed General Electric Company's and General Electric Capital Corporation's (GECC) long-term Aaa ratings on review for possible downgrade. This review does not affect GEs and GECCs short-term funding ratings of Prime-1 (P-1), which were affirmed by Moody's. This action is a follow-up to Moodys December review of GEs 2009 operating plan. GE has outlined a plan for the year that is based on the difficult global economic environment we see. During the next few months, we will work constructively with Moodys on its review. Our objective is to maintain our Triple-A rating but we do not anticipate any major operational impacts should that change. We expect to deliver on the 2009 financial framework that we outlined last week.
Fairfield, Conn., Jan. 27, 2009
 
GE has taken steps to strengthen its liquidity position, including reducing GE Capital Services commercial paper from $88 billion in 3Q 08 to $65 billion today. We have raised 64% of our long-term funding for 2009. The company has more than $50 billion in cash on hand. During 2008, GE increased its alternative funding by $25 billion and will continue to grow this funding in 2009 and beyond.
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
"Results are preliminary and unaudited. This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets:  continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital markets; the commercial and consumer credit environment; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal actions; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions; future integration of acquired businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve, including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; and numerous
 
 
 
other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Russell Wilkerson, 203.373.3193 (office); 203.581.2114 (mobile)
russell.wilkerson@ge.com
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
 
 


