FILE:GE/GE-8K-20091016080331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 16, 2009, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs third-quarter 2009 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plans.
 
On October 16, 2009, the Company received a notice required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, regarding a blackout period under the GE Savings & Security Program (the S&SP). The purpose of the blackout period is to allow the Company to transfer recordkeeping and certain other administrative services of the S&SP to Fidelity Investments.
 
The blackout period will be in effect beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on November 30, 2009 and is expected to end on December 7, 2009 (or possibly later that week). During the blackout period, S&SP participants will be temporarily unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts; obtain loans, withdrawals, or distributions from the S&SP; or view account information. Notice of the applicable blackout period was sent to all participants and beneficiaries under the S&SP.
 
Because the S&SP includes GE common stock as an investment option, on October 16, 2009, in accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR, the Company sent a separate notice (the Insider Notice) to its directors and executive officers informing them that during the blackout period they would generally be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring, GE common stock or any other equity security or derivative security of GE acquired in connection with their employment as an officer or service as a director. A copy of the Insider Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
During the blackout period and for two years after the ending date of the blackout period, a stockholder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the actual ending date of the blackout period by contacting Michael McAlevey at General Electric Company, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, Connecticut 06828-0001, or by phone at (203) 373-2211.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being filed as part of this report:
 
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
GE announced today third-quarter 2009 earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) of $2.5 billion, or $0.22 per share, including the effect of $0.05 in restructuring and other charges, down 51% from the third quarter of 2008.  Industrial segment profit grew 4% in the quarter compared to the year-ago period.  Cash generated from GE Industrial operating activities totaled $4.4 billion in the quarter and $11.5 billion year to date, up 1%.  Total company backlog of equipment and services grew 2% to $174 billion over the prior quarter.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  Oct. 16, 2009 
In a global economic environment that is beginning to slowly recover, GE delivered solid third-quarter business results, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.  We continue to execute on our plan at Capital Finance, perform well in a slow-growth industrial environment and strengthen the balance sheet with strong cash generation.  We are aggressively controlling costs, increasing our industrial backlog while expanding margins, and capitalizing on strong services performance.
Industrial segment profit grew 4% versus the third quarter of last year.  An 11% increase in Energy Infrastructure earnings and NBC Universals 13% earnings growth more than offset an 8% decrease in Technology Infrastructures earnings.  These, combined with 149% growth in Consumer & Industrial earnings, partially offset continued pressure at Capital Finance, where profit decreased 87% for the quarter compared to a year ago.
 
(1)
 
 
Revenues were $37.8 billion, in line with our expectations.  Industrial sales were down 13%.  Industrial organic sales, which exclude the impact of FX and the 2008 Olympics, were down 8%.  GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues declined 31%, driven by Capital Finance ending net investment reduction ahead of plan and the Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. deconsolidation.
GE generated $18.4 billion in Infrastructure orders, a decline of 18% year-over-year, and an increase of $0.5 billion over the previous quarter.  High-margin service orders continued to provide counter-cyclical balance and support future growth, increasing 3% year-over-year.  Total backlog was $174 billion, reaching an all-time high.  Equipment and service order cancellations remain insignificant.
I am particularly proud of the teams execution on Industrial cash flow, Immelt said.  This strong performance, despite the tough environment, has us on pace to generate more than $15 billion in cash this year.
In addition, GE continued aggressive cost reductions in the quarter.  Restructuring and other items totaled $0.6 billion after tax, or $0.05 per share, bringing year-to-date restructuring and other charges to $1.3 billion after tax, or $0.12 per share.
We continue to execute our plan of creating a more focused financial services company, Immelt said.  Capital Finance earned $263 million in the quarter and $2 billion year to date.  At the same time, we have reduced the Capital Finance ending net investment ahead of plan and increased reserves by $0.8 billion in the quarter.
While it remains a tough environment for GE Capital, we are seeing signs of stabilization, Immelt said.  Every segment at GE Capital was profitable with the exception of Real Estate, which is experiencing a tough environment but where we believe the risks are well understood and manageable.
This is another quarter where the company executed on our commitments, Immelt said.  Our Industrial segment earnings growth was positive, while we built backlog.  We are well positioned in the markets and geographies that will grow in the future.  We have successfully navigated through the financial crisis and are preparing GE Capital to be a smaller, more focused franchise.  GE is well positioned in this reset economy.
Third Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
were $2.5 billion, down 45% from $4.5 billion in the third quarter of 2008. EPS from continuing operations was $0.22, down 51% from last year. Segment profit fell 26% compared with the third quarter of 2008, as 11% growth at Energy Infrastructure, 13% growth at NBC Universal and 149% growth at Consumer & Industrial were more than offset by an 87% earnings decline at Capital Finance and an 8% earnings decline at Technology Infrastructure.
Earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
Including the effects of discontinued operations, third quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $2.5 billion ($0.23 per share) in 2009 compared with $4.3 billion ($0.43 per share) in the third quarter of 2008.
 
 
(2)
fell 20% to $37.8 billion. GECS revenues fell 31% versus last year to $12.7 billion. Industrial sales were $25.1 billion, down 13% from the third quarter of 2008.
Revenues
generated from GE Industrial operating activities in the first nine months of 2009 totaled $11.5 billion, up 1% from $11.3 billion last year.
Cash
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary third-quarter results on a Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
www.ge.com/investor
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of GE Capitals funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capitals asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of proposed financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
(3)
 
 
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2008 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2008 for further information about consolidation matters.
(4)
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2008 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2008 for further information about consolidation matters.
(5)
 
 
 
(6)
 
 
 
(7)
 
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
September 30, 2009, information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2008 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2008 for further information about consolidation matters.
(8)
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to growth in industrial cash from operating activities (Industrial CFOA) for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and the decline in Industrial organic sales for the three months ended September 30, 2009, compared with the three months ended September 30, 2008. The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures follows.
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; medical equipment manufactured by GE that is leased by GECS to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
Industrial organic sales measures sales from our industrial businesses excluding the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions, currency exchange rates and the 2008 Olympics broadcasts for comparison of current period results with the corresponding period of the prior year. We believe that this measure provides management and investors with a more complete understanding of underlying operating results and trends of established, ongoing operations by excluding the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange, which activities are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying trends, and the 2008 Olympics broadcasts, which if included would overshadow trends in ongoing sales. We also believe that presenting organic sales separately for our industrial businesses provides management and investors with useful information about the trends of our industrial businesses and enables a more direct comparison to other non-financial businesses and companies. Management recognizes that the term industrial organic sales may be interpreted differently by other companies and under different circumstances. Although this may have an effect on comparability of absolute percentage growth from company to company, we believe that this measure is useful in assessing trends of the respective businesses or companies and may therefore be a useful tool in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
(9)

Exhibit 99.2
October 16, 2009
You are receiving this notice to advise you that your ability to purchase, sell, acquire, or transfer equity securities of General Electric Company (GE) will be restricted from November 30, 2009 through the week of December 7, 2009.
Starting in December, significant enhancements and other changes will be made to the GE Savings and Security Program (S&SP).  In addition, the recordkeeping and certain other administrative services of S&SP will be transferred to Fidelity Investments.  As of December 1, 2009, Fidelity Management Trust Company will serve as directed trustee with respect to the plans assets.
In order to ensure a smooth transition of S&SPs recordkeeping function to Fidelity and to implement the other changes in S&SP, participants in S&SP will be temporarily unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts; obtain loans, withdrawals, or distributions from S&SP; or view account information.  S&SP includes GE common stock as an investment option, and participants will be temporarily unable to purchase, sell, or otherwise acquire or transfer interests in GE common stock in their individual accounts during this period.
The period during which these participant transactions are temporarily suspended under S&SP is called a Blackout Period.  The Blackout Period will begin at 4:00 p.m. Eastern time on November 30, 2009, and is expected to end on December 7, 2009 (or possibly later that week).  You can determine whether the Blackout Period has started or ended by contacting Michael McAlevey at the telephone number or email address provided below.
Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and applicable securities regulations prohibit each director and executive officer of GE from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring any equity security of GE during the Blackout Period, if the director or executive officer acquired the equity security in connection with service as a director or executive officer of GE.  These restrictions apply whether or not the director or executive officer participates in S&SP.  GEs equity securities include GE common stock, any security convertible into GE common stock, stock options or stock appreciation rights exercisable for GE common stock, and any interest whose value is based on GE common stock, including restricted stock units, performance share units, and deferred stock units.
Please note that any securities of GE that you acquire, sell, or transfer during the Blackout Period will be considered to have been acquired in connection with your service as a director or executive officer, unless you can establish that the securities were acquired from another source.  Transactions covered by these restrictions are not limited to those involving your direct ownership, but include any transactions in which you may have a pecuniary interest (e.g., transactions by members of your family who share your household, as well as by certain entities in which you have financial involvement).
Consequently, during the Blackout Period, you may not directly or indirectly purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer any equity security of GE (or exercise any GE stock options or stock appreciation rights) that you acquired in connection with your service as a director or executive officer of GE.
 
There are a limited number of exceptions to the restrictions described above, and certain types of transactions continue to be permitted during the Blackout Period.  These permitted transactions generally are transactions over which you have no control, such as shares of GE stock that you inherit during the Blackout Period or shares acquired or sold pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan established before you became aware of the Blackout Period.  For more information about these exceptions and whether they apply in a particular situation, please contact the person identified below.
To learn whether the Blackout Period has started or ended, or if you have any other questions about this notice, please contact Michael McAlevey by phone at (203) 373-2211 or by email at michael.mcalevey@ge.com.
 


