FILE:GE/GE-8K-20090612104950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d)
On June 12, 2009, the Board of Directors of the General Electric Company elected W. Geoffrey Beattie, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Woodbridge Company Limited, to the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors increased its size from fifteen to sixteen directors,
and Mr. Beattie joined the Board of Directors to fill the resulting vacancy.
 
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Beattie is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Company's independence guidelines, as set forth in its Governance Principles.
 
The Board has appointed Mr. Beattie to the Audit Committee.
Mr. Beattie will participate in the compensation and benefit program for non-management directors as described on pages 38 and 39 of the General Electric Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareowners held on April 22, 2009.
 
A copy of GE's press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99 Press release, dated: June 12, 2009, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
For Immediate Release
Fairfield, CT, June 12, 2009
 The Board of Directors of the General Electric Company [NYSE: GE] elected W. Geoffrey Beattie, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Woodbridge Company Limited, to its Board of Directors today.
Geoff Beatties expertise in information services, financial services and multimedia make him an ideal addition to the GE Board of Directors, said GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt. His guidance on these and other issues will be invaluable to the board and to GE business leaders.
The addition of Mr. Beattie brings membership of GEs board to 16. The board has determined Mr. Beattie is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Companys independence guidelines, as set forth in its Governance Principles, which are available in the 'Our Company' section of GEs website under Governance at
http://www.ge.com/company/governance/principles/index.html
. 
The Woodbridge Company Limited is the investment holding company for the Thomson family of Canada and the majority shareholder of Thomson Reuters.
Beattie, 49, of Toronto, Canada, is also deputy chairman and director of Thomson Reuters, the worlds leading source of intelligent information for businesses and professionals.   Thomson Reuters shares are listed on the New York, London, Toronto and NASDAQ exchanges.
Beattie also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Maple Leaf Foods Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada. In addition to his public company board memberships, Mr. Beattie is chairman of CTV globemedia Inc., a Canadian broadcasting and publishing company, and a trustee of the University Health Network in Toronto.
Prior to joining Woodbridge in 1998, Beattie was a partner in the Toronto law firm Torys LLP.
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com


