FILE:GE/GE-8K-20100716075826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 16, 2010, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs second-quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: July 16, 2010, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
GE announced today second-quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) of $3.3 billion, with EPS of $0.30 per share up 15% from the second quarter of 2009.  Revenues were $37.4 billion for the quarter, down 4% from a year ago, impacted by lower GE Capital assets, industrial dispositions and lower equipment sales as expected.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  July 16, 2010 
GEs economic environment continues to improve, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said, citing growth in orders, margins and earnings amid other encouraging signs in the quarter.  Equipment orders increased 17%, including 20% growth in the Energy Infrastructure segment and 14% at Technology Infrastructure.  Oil & Gas and Healthcare orders were particular bright spots and helped hold total company orders backlog roughly flat, excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
GEs portfolio generated solid results across the board, Immelt said. Our Energy and Technology Infrastructure businesses performed as expected, Home & Business Solutions and NBCU turned in good revenue and earnings growth, and GE Capital delivered 93% net income growth as losses have peaked and earnings are rebounding.
Higher income and lower losses at GE Capital were particularly encouraging, with pre-tax earnings of $0.7 billion, Immelt said. We continue to see improvement in key performance measurements.  Losses and impairments declined $0.5 billion from the prior quarter, with consumer losses down $0.4 billion and real estate losses in line with our expectations.  We have strengthened the franchise over the past year and GE Capitals earnings recovery should continue.
 
 
 
The company advanced strategically in the quarter. We announced that our joint venture with China Aviation Industry Corporation (AVIC) has been selected to provide the avionics systems package for the newly launched C919 single-aisle aircraft. The C919 is now positioned to have the most GE content of any plane in history. We announced the launch of our global GE Healthcare Performance Solutions business to expand consulting capabilities that help customers reduce waste and improve efficiency.And GE Capital recently announced the disposition of BAC Credomatic, consistent with our overall strategy to bring ending net investment to targeted levels.
 
Company execution was strong in the quarter, Immelt said. Industrial margins improved to 17.1%, up 70 bps from a year ago.  We continued to invest for future growth and increased our first-half R&D investment by 14%.  Cash generated from Industrial operating activities totaled $3.8 billion in the quarter and we are on track for $13-$15 billion this year.  At quarter-end, GE had $74 billion of consolidated cash and equivalents.
Positive items were offset by charges in the quarter. After-tax gains of $0.01 per share were offset by $0.01 per share in after-tax restructuring and other charges.
GE is well positioned across the portfolio, both financially and competitively, Immelt said. The company continues to generate strong cash flow, which we will invest strategically to create shareholder value, while keeping the company safe. We expect to grow earnings and dividends in 2011 and beyond.
Second-Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
were $3.3 billion, up 14% from $2.9 billion in the second quarter of 2009. EPS from continuing operations was $0.30, up 15% from last year. Segment profit increased 8% compared with the second quarter of 2009, as 93% growth at GE Capital, 13% growth at NBC Universal and 59% growth at Home & Business Solutions, more than offset an 11% earnings decline at Technology Infrastructure.
Earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
Including the effects of discontinued operations, second quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $3.1 billion ($0.28 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2010 compared with $2.7 billion ($0.25 per share attributable to common shareowners) in the second quarter of 2009.
decreased 4% to $37.4 billion. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues fell 2% versus last year to $13.1 billion. Industrial sales were $24.4 billion, down 6% from the second quarter of 2009.
Revenues
generated from GE Industrial operating activities in the first six months of 2010 totaled $6.3 billion, down 10% from $7.0 billion last year.
Cash
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary second-quarter results on a Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the Webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
 
 
2
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, health care solutions, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rat es, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
3
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Condensed Statement of Earnings
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
4
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Condensed Statement of Earnings
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
June 30, 2010, information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for GE and GECS. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the Consolidated columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
8
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to cash generated from Industrial operating activities (Industrial CFOA) for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared with the six months ended June 30, 2009, and Industrial CFOA for the three months ended June 30, 2010. The reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures follows.
 
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
9
 


