FILE:GE/GE-8K-20100416073456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 16, 2010, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs first-quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: April 16, 2010, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
GE Reports 1Q 10 Continuing EPS of $0.21;
Revenues Total $36.6B for Quarter;
GE Capital Earned $607MM with Pretax Earnings of $235MM
 
 
1Q 2010 Highlights (Continuing Operations Attributable to GE)
 
 
 
GE announced today first-quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) of $2.3 billion, down 18% from the first quarter of 2009, or $0.21 per share.  Revenues were $36.6 billion for the quarter, down 5% from a year ago, reflecting acceleration of GE Capital downsizing.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  April 16, 2010
 
GEs environment continued to improve in the first quarter of 2010, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.  We saw encouraging economic signs, including increases in airline passenger miles and freight loadings, declines in receivables delinquencies, and growth in local advertising markets.  Total company backlog of equipment and services held steady from the prior quarter at $174 billion. Our Healthcare and Oil & Gas businesses experienced solid orders growth and our equipment and services backlog remains strong.
 
Our business model is performing, Immelt said. We are expanding Industrial margins and realizing benefits from over two years of restructuring, while increasing investment in R&D to drive profitable organic growth.
 
We are very encouraged by GE Capitals performance, earning $0.6 billion in the quarter, Immelt said.  We are seeing solid signs of stabilization.  Losses, delinquencies and non-earning assets (excluding the impact of FAS 167) declined in the quarter. At the same time, reserve coverage increased.  We are originating new business at attractive margins and our funding costs have declined.  GE Capital losses seem to have peaked. Commercial real estate continues to be challenging, but the risks are understood and we expect them to be manageable. We have strengthened the GE Capital franchise and are on track for solid earnings growth.
 
 
 
 
Excluding the impact of the Olympics, Industrial margins improved to 14.7%, up 30 bps from a year ago, reflecting good performances at Energy, Healthcare and Home & Business Solutions.  The company grew R&D investment by 16% in the first quarter and has a pipeline of new products and services.  Cash generated from Industrial operating activities totaled $2.6 billion in the quarter, on track for $13-$15 billion this year. At quarter-end, GE had $70 billion of consolidated cash.
 
Our 2010 framework remains achievable with potential for upside, Immelt said.  We may evaluate additional restructuring that will improve our earnings power going forward.  We will have substantial cash available for allocation and we expect to grow earnings and dividends in 2011 and beyond.
 
Positive items were offset by charges in the quarter.  After-tax transaction gains of $0.02 per share were offset by $0.02 per share in after-tax restructuring and other charges.
 
We are leading a renewed GE, Immelt said.  GE has leadership positions in Infrastructure and Financial Services.  We are investing in new products, services and emerging markets. The company is positioned to deliver long-term shareowner value.
 
First-Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
 
were $2.3 billion, down 18% from $2.9 billion in the first quarter of 2009. EPS from continuing operations was $0.21, down 19% from last year. Segment profit fell 16% compared with the first quarter of 2009, as 12% growth at Energy Infrastructure was more than offset by earnings declines of 41% at GE Capital, 18% at Technology Infrastructure and 49% at NBC Universal.
Earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
 
Including the effect of discontinued operations, first-quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $1.9 billion ($0.17 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2010 compared with $2.8 billion ($0.26 per share attributable to common shareowners) in the first quarter of 2009.  During the first quarter, the company recorded incremental reserves related to the 2008 disposal of our GE Money Japan business, which is reflected in discontinued operations.
 
decreased 5% to $36.6 billion. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues fell 9% versus the first quarter of last year to $13.2 billion. Industrial sales were $23.5 billion, down 2% from the first quarter of 2009.
Revenues
 
generated from Industrial operating activities in the first three months of 2010 totaled $2.6 billion, down 17% from $3.1 billion in the first quarter of last year.
Cash
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
GE will discuss preliminary first-quarter results on a Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the Webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
*   *   *
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, health care
 
 
(2)
 
 
solutions, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with which GECC does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of proposed financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
(3)
 
 
 
(4)
 
 
 
 
(5)
 
 
 
 
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
(7)
 
 
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
 
 
 
We have provided the operating profit percentage of our Industrial segments, excluding the effects of the 2010 Olympic broadcasts. We believe that this is a useful measure for investors because inclusion of the effects of the 2010 Olympic broadcasts would over-shadow trends in the ongoing operating profit percentage.
 
 
(8)


