FILE:GE/GE-8K-20100122074451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 22, 2010, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 The following exhibit is being filed as part of this report:
   
 
        
 
 
99
Press release, dated: January 22, 2010, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
Seeing encouraging signs in our businesses at year-end
GE business model performing well
2010 framework remains achievable and balanced
 
GE announced today fourth-quarter 2009 earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) of $3.0 billion, or $0.28 per share.  Revenues were $41.4 billion for the quarter and $157 billion for the year.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  Jan. 22, 2010 
GEs environment has improved and we saw some encouraging signs at year-end, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.  Fourth-quarter Infrastructure orders increased $3.7 billion from third quarter to $22.1 billion.  Total company backlog of equipment and services increased slightly from the prior quarter to a record $175 billion. Service orders remained strong, growing 14% for the quarter. Our Healthcare business experienced solid orders growth and enters 2010 with a higher backlog than last year. Non-earning assets declined $0.6 billion in the quarter and Consumer delinquencies are stabilizing.
We continue to operate the company with discipline, Immelt said. Cash generated from GE Industrial operating activities totaled $5.1 billion in the quarter and $16.6 billion for the year. At year-end, we have $72 billion of consolidated cash. Industrial margins are strong and improved to 17.7% for the fourth quarter, up 40 bps over 2008. We recorded $2.2 billion after tax of restructuring and other charges in 2009, allowing us to lower cost and strengthen our long-term outlook.
 
 
Capital Finance is executing well in a difficult environment, earning $0.3 billion in the quarter and $2.3 billion for the year, Immelt said. Every segment at GE Capital was profitable with the exception of Commercial Real Estate, which continues to operate in a difficult environment.  We completed 100% of our 2010 long-term funding plan for GE Capital, and have raised about $4.4 billion in 2010 that will go towards our 2011 plan. Capital Finance reserves increased $0.7 billion to $8.1 billion.
Restructuring and other charges of $0.09 per share were partially offset by other benefits in the quarter, including $0.01 per share in after-tax transaction gains and a $0.05 per share tax benefit from a lower industrial tax rate.
Significant new global partnerships and sizeable Infrastructure wins were among fourth-quarter highlights. GE agreed to team with the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China to power China's newest commercial aircraft in development, the C919, and established a joint venture with China Aviation Industry Corporation to develop and market integrated avionics systems.  In addition, the company won: a $1.4 billion commitment from Caithness Energy for what could be the worlds largest wind farm by output; a 15-year, $1 billion engine service agreement with Brazilian airline Azul Linhas Areas; a 100-locomotive order from South Africa's state-owned rail freight logistics utility, Transnet Ltd.; a $1.3 billion contract to supply equipment and long-term services to help boost Kuwait's electricity production; and an American Airlines commitment to use the GEnx-1B engine for its expected order of 42 firm Boeing 787 aircraft plus 58 options.
During the difficult economy of 2009, we took a series of actions to improve GE so that we would be positioned for growth in the future, Immelt said. We have repositioned GE Capital to be safer and more focused.  We have lowered our cost base and simplified our portfolio. At the same time, we grew GE R&D spend by 7%, expanded our product lines and made dynamic global investments. We are positioned to win in this environment.
Full-year and Fourth-quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
were $11.2 billion, down 38% from $18.1 billion in 2008. EPS from continuing operations was $1.03, down 42% from last year. Segment profit fell 27% compared with 2008, as 13% growth at Energy Infrastructure and 10% growth at Consumer & Industrial were more than offset by declines of 73% at Capital Finance, 28% at NBC Universal and 8% at Technology Infrastructure.
Full-year earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
Including the effects of discontinued operations, full year net earnings attributable to GE were $11.0 billion ($1.01 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2009 compared with $17.4 billion ($1.72 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2008.
decreased 14% to $156.8 billion. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues fell 24% compared with last year to $54.2 billion. Industrial sales were $103.5 billion, down 8% from 2008.
Full-year revenues
were $3.0 billion, down 22% from $3.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008. EPS from continuing operations was $0.28, down 22% from the fourth quarter of last year. Segment profit declined 16% compared with the fourth quarter of 2008, as 9% growth at Energy Infrastructure and 278%
Fourth-quarter earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
 
2
 
growth at Consumer & Industrial were more than offset by declines of 67% at Capital Finance, 30% at NBC Universal and 16% at Technology Infrastructure.
Including the effects of discontinued operations, fourth-quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $3.0 billion ($0.28 per share attributable to common shareowners) compared with $3.7 billion ($0.35 per share attributable to common shareowners) in the fourth quarter of 2008.
fell 10% to $41.4 billion. GECS revenues fell 14% versus last year to $13.5 billion. Industrial sales were $28.3 billion, down 9% from 2008.
Fourth-quarter revenues
in 2009 totaled $16.6 billion, down 1% from $16.7 billion last year.
Cash generated from GE Industrial operating activities
Last month, we reviewed a 2010 financial framework that was about flat with 2009, Immelt said. We believe this framework is quite achievable and sets us up for solid growth in 2011 and beyond. Moreover, due to the companys strong cash position, we will have an opportunity to keep GE secure create long-term shareholder value.
and
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary fourth-quarter and full-year results on a Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the call.
www.ge.com/investor
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, medical imaging, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
This document contains forward-looking statements- that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of GE Capitals funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capitals asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of proposed financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
3
 
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2468 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
 
 
 
6
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Summary of Operating Segments (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
9
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to cash generated from GE Industrial operating activities (Industrial CFOA) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, compared with the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, and Industrial CFOA for the three months ended December 31, 2009. The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures follows.
 
 
 
 
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
 
 
10


