FILE:GE/GE-8K-20101015080343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 15, 2010, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs third-quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: October 15, 2010, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
                                           
PRESS RELEASE
 
GE announced today third-quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) of $3.2 billion, with EPS of $0.29 per share up 32% from the third quarter of 2009.  GEs economic environment continues to improve, as evidenced by consecutive quarters of orders and continuing-earnings growth.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  October 15, 2010 
Revenues were $35.9 billion for the quarter, down 5%, consistent with the first half of 2010. Revenues were impacted by lower equipment sales and reduced GE Capital assets. GE expects fourth-quarter 2010 Industrial revenues to grow sequentially from third quarter and to be about flat with the year-ago period.
For the first time in eight quarters, we saw growth in both equipment and service orders, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.  Equipment orders increased 9%, including 33% growth in Technology Infrastructure.  We had strong global demand, including orders for 60 GE90 aircraft engines by Emirates, 142 Evolution Series locomotives for the North American market, and seven gas and two steam turbines to supply power to Saudi Electric Company. Healthcare orders in China and India improved by more than 20%.  Service-orders growth reflects increased installed-base utilization.  Overall backlog remained flat at $172 billion.
Company execution was strong in the quarter, Immelt said. Industrial operating margins were 16.4%, up 40 basis points, excluding NBC Universal.  We continued to invest for global product leadership, competitive adjacent-market positioning and efficient operations.  We increased year-to-date research and development investment 21%.  Cash generated from Industrial operating activities totaled $3.8 billion in the quarter and we are on track for $14-$15 billion this year, the high end of our plan.  At quarter-end, GE had $78 billion of consolidated cash and equivalents. Strong cash generation remains a hallmark for GE.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Energy Infrastructure delivered as expected in a tough environment, with flat operating profit on declining revenues. Healthcare profit improved 14%, driven by improved global demand. Aviation profits declined, reflecting initial shipments of the new GEnx engine and in comparison to a gain in the third quarter of 2009. Revenues at NBCU were flat at $4.1 billion with operating profit down 15%; NBCU revenue and operating profit were favorable compared to the year-ago period after adjusting for 2009 transactions without comparable events in 2010.
GE Capital continues to outperform expectations and position itself to play offense, Immelt said.  Higher core income and lower losses indicate that business has turned the corner and our efforts over the past 18 months to strengthen the franchise are paying off.  Net earnings of $0.9 billion were up $0.7 billion from a year ago.  Reserves remained flat at $9.1 billion, while key performance measurements continued to improve.  Further, we saw year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter improvements in most GE Capital portfolios, with particularly strong performance in Consumer and Commercial Lending and Leasing.
GE Capital has strengthened its franchise into an advantaged specialty-finance player that is creating value for GE shareholders, Immelt said.  GE Capital is well positioned with respect to Basel III capital requirements and we expect earnings growth in our financial services business to continue.
Also in the quarter, GE Capital increased reserves by $1.1 billion related to our disposition of our former Japan consumer finance business, recorded in discontinued operations, Immelt said.  Based on what we know today, we believe this update fully addresses our claims risk.
There were no other significant charges or gains in the third quarter.
Effective capital allocation will benefit GE investors as we go forward, Immelt said. Recent capital-allocation moves have included GE Energys announced $3.0 billion acquisition of Dresser, Inc., a global energy infrastructure technology and service provider; GE Capitals announced acquisition of $1.6 billion in sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards; and our Power & Water business announced purchase of Calnetix Power Solutions for entrance into the $1 billion waste-heat-recovery segment.  In the third quarter of 2010, we increased the dividend 20% and extended our share repurchase program.  We are confident in our financial strength and cash flow.
Third-quarter 2010 results should give investors confidence that a renewed GE should grow earnings and dividends in 2011 and beyond, Immelt said.
Third-Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
were $3.2 billion, up 29% from $2.5 billion in the third quarter of 2009. EPS from continuing operations was $0.29, up 32% from last year. Segment profit increased 11% compared with the third quarter of 2009 as an over 500% increase at GE Capital more than offset earnings declines of 10% at Technology Infrastructure and 15% at NBCU.
Earnings from continuing operations attributable to GE
 
 
2
 
Including the effects of discontinued operations, third-quarter net earnings attributable to GE common shareowners were $2.0 billion ($0.18 per share) in the third quarter of 2010 compared with $2.4 billion ($0.23 per share) in the third quarter of 2009.
 
decreased 5% to $35.9 billion. GE Capital Services revenues fell 2% versus last year to $12.5 billion. Industrial sales were $23.6 billion, down 6% from the third quarter of 2009.
Revenues
generated from GE Industrial operating activities in the first nine months of 2010 totaled $10.1 billion, down 11% from $11.4 billion last year.
Cash
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary third-quarter results on a Webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the Webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure, finance and media company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aircraft engines and power generation to financial services, health care solutions, and television programming, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's Web site at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
;;
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults;
changes in Japanese consumer behavior that may affect our estimates of liability for Grey Zone claims
our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation
strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions
and our success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2424 (office)
trevor.schauenberg@ge.com
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Refers to the Industrial businesses of the Company including GECS on an equity basis.
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Summary of Operating Segments (unaudited) Additional Information
 
 
(a) During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Condensed Statement of Financial Position
 
 
 
 
September 30, 2010, information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2009 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2009 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to cash generated from Industrial operating activities (Industrial CFOA) for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2009, Industrial CFOA for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and Industrial operating margins excluding NBC Universal (NBCU). The reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measu res follows.
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
 
 
 
We have provided the operating profit of our industrial businesses excluding our media business, NBC Universal, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009.  We believe that it is a useful comparison because it provides investors with information on the results of our industrial businesses without the NBC Universal business, which is classified as a business held for sale.  We believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides management and investors with additional information for comparison to other industrial businesses.


