FILE:GE/GE-8K-20110421081353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
(1)
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2011, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs first-quarter 2011 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: April 21, 2011, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE
GE [NYSE: GE] announced today strong first-quarter 2011 operating earnings of $3.6 billion, up 58%, or $0.33 per share, up 65%, from the first quarter of 2010. GAAP earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) were $3.4 billion, or $0.31 per share, both up 48% year-over-year.  Revenues grew to $38.4 billion for the quarter, up 6% from a year ago. In addition, GE raised its quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.15 effective in the third quarter of 2011.  This is the third dividend increase declared in the last 12 months and reflects GE leaderships confidence in the companys business performance.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  April 21, 2011 
As todays results show, GE has emerged from the recession a stronger, more competitive company, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. GE Healthcare, Transportation and Aviation delivered strong results. Strategic investments in high-growth segments have strengthened the companys Energy portfolio and position that business to return to growth in the second half of this year.  We ended the quarter with a record high backlog of $177 billion.
GE Capital also had a strong first quarter, earning $1.8 billion after tax, Immelt said. With losses having peaked, we are originating new business at attractive margins and our funding costs continue to be favorable. Reserve coverage decreased slightly in the quarter, driven by improving portfolio quality. Since the first quarter of 2010, weve improved our GECC Tier 1 common ratio to 9.8% from 7.8% and reduced GECC leverage to 4.5:1 from 5.5:1.  We have strengthened the GE Capital franchise and are on track for solid earnings growth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter, the company grew R&D investment 12% and launched nearly 50 new Healthcare and Energy products. Industrial segment operating profit margin declined 1.1 points from a year ago to 14.3%. Deflation remained positive for the quarter. Margins were also impacted by lower Wind pricing, the non-repeat of a 2010 Aviation franchise fee and new acquisitions. Cash generated from Industrial operating activities totaled $1.7 billion in the quarter, on track for full-year plan of $12-$13 billion. At quarter-end, GE had $82 billion of consolidated cash.
Balanced capital allocation remains a positive for GE investors.  Since the second quarter of 2010 the company has declared dividend increases totaling 50%, announced six acquisitions in Energy and Healthcare that will drive long-term growth, and bought back $2.3 billion of stock.
 
 
Positive items were mostly offset by charges in the quarter. GE completed the NBC Universal transaction, resulting in a $0.04 per-share after-tax gain and a 49% ownership in the new entity.  This was partially offset by $0.02 per share in after-tax restructuring and other charges and $0.01 in acquisition and disposition-related costs.
As we said in January on the year-end 2010 earnings call, we expected the NBCU sale to result in a high tax rate, Immelt said. Including the impact of that transaction, GEs consolidated tax rate for the first quarter of 2011 was 53%, up 37 points from the same quarter last year.
We remain confident in GEs 2011 framework, Immelt said.  We are executing our capital allocation plan. We will continue investing to drive future growth and competitive advantage.  The GE business model will continue to deliver earnings growth for shareowners in 2011 and beyond.
First-quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
were $3.6 billion, up 58% from $2.3 billion in the first quarter of 2010 and operating EPS was $0.33, up 65% from $0.20 in the first quarter of last year. Segment profit increased 36% compared with the first quarter of 2010, as increases of more than 200% at GE Capital, 37% at Transportation, 7% at Healthcare and 5% at Aviation more than offset a 7% earnings decline at Energy Infrastructure.
First-quarter operating earnings
Including the effects of discontinued operations, first-quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $3.4 billion ($0.31 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2011 compared with $1.9 billion ($0.17 per share attributable to common shareowners) in the first quarter of 2010.
increased 6% to $38.4 billion. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues increased 3% from last year to $13.2 billion. Industrial sales of $22.1 billion decreased 6% versus 2010.
First-quarter revenues
generated from GE Industrial operating activities in first quarter 2011 totaled $1.7 billion, down 34% from $2.6 billion in the first quarter of 2010.
Cash
 
 
 
 
2
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary first-quarter results on a webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure and finance company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aviation and power generation to financial services, healthcare solutions, oil and gas and rail, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's website at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; changes in Japanese consumer behavior that may affect our estimates of liability for excess interest refund claims (Grey Zone); potential financial implications from the Japanese natural disaster; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions, joint ventures and dispositions and our success in completing announced transactions and integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Anne Eisele, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.522.9045 (mobile)
anne.eisele@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2424 (office)
trevor.a.schauenberg@ge.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Condensed Statement of Financial Position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
Financial Measures That Supplement GAAP
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 of 2
 
 
 
 
 
2 of 2
 


