FILE:GE/GE-8K-20110722074824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 22, 2011, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs second-quarter 2011 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: July 22, 2011, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
2Q 2011 Highlights (Continuing Operations Attributable to GE)
 
 
GE [NYSE: GE] announced today strong second-quarter 2011 operating earnings from continuing operations of $3.7 billion, up 18%, or $0.34 per share, up 17%, from the second quarter of 2010. Revenues were $35.6 billion for the quarter, down 4% from a year ago, primarily driven by the absence of NBCU revenues after the sale of GEs majority position to Comcast.  Excluding this impact, revenues were up 7%.
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  July 22, 2011
 
With our fifth-consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth, we continue to execute in a volatile environment, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. We posted solid overall operating earnings growth of 18%, with strong contributions from GE Capital, Healthcare, Transportation, Aviation, and Oil & Gas. GEs backlog grew to a record high of $189 billion. Total infrastructure orders were up 24%, reflecting robust strength in equipment orders, up 33%, and service orders up 16%.
International revenues from Industrial (ex NBCU) were $13.4 billion, up 23% representing 59% of total Industrial revenues. GE revenue for the Industrial segments accelerated in growth regions, including double-digit increases in India, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, Russia, Australia, Canada, and Latin America.
GE Capital continued to deliver strong performance through the second quarter, earning $1.7 billion after tax, Immelt said. GE Capitals portfolio transformation is ahead of schedule.  Consumer and Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) led with earnings growth of 57% and more than 100%, respectively. We continue to see strong demand for credit with CLL new volume originations at $10.8 billion for the quarter, up 33% from prior year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously communicated, Energy earnings and margins were down primarily as a result of pressure in the renewable sector, Immelt said. In addition, margins were impacted by the integration of Energy acquisitions.  Indicators are pointing to a stronger second half in 2011 for Energy when we expect approximately 17% unit volume growth versus 2010.  Integration of strategic Energy acquisitions is ahead of plan,furtherpositioning Energy Infrastructure for growth in the second half of this year. Overall, Industrial earnings should improve in the second half of 2011 and the cycle is expected to accelerate in 2012.
 
 
In the second quarter, the Company increased R&D investment 40% above a year ago to ensure GE continues to lead in technology innovations, products and services that drive strong organic revenue growth and future margin expansion. The investment is showing results. For example, GE Aviation and its joint ventures announced record wins of $27 billion at the Paris Air Show in June.The LEAP-X engine (a CFM International engine) has taken the lead in narrow-body orders on the new Airbus A320neo and is positioned as the sole source for Boeings 737 re-engine program.  In Energy, GE launched the FlexEfficiency 50 Combined Cycle Power Plant, which delivers an unprecedented combination of flexibility and fuel efficiency, announced the worlds most efficient wind turbine, and achieved the highest reported efficiency for thin-film solar panels.
 
Cash generated from Industrial operating activities totaled $4.4 billion in the first half of 2011, on track for full-year plan of $12-$13 billion.  At quarter-end, GE had $91 billion of consolidated cash.  Year-to-date, the Company has executed on $1 billion of stock buybacks and $2.7 billion of stock buybacks since restarting the program in the third quarter of 2010.  The Company plans to retire the preferred stock issued to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in October 2011.
We are very encouraged by second-quarter orders and earnings momentum across the company, Immelt said.  We are optimistic about our growth prospects in the second half and beyond.
Second-quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
were $3.7 billion, up 18% from $3.2 billion in the second quarter of 2010 and operating EPS was $0.34, up 17% from $0.29 in the second quarter of last year. Segment profit increased 18% compared with the second quarter of 2010, as increases of more than 100% at GE Capital, more than 500% at Transportation, 9% at Aviation and 8% at Healthcare more than offset earnings decreases of 19% at Energy Infrastructure and 26% at Home & Business Solutions.
Second-quarter operating earnings
Including the effects of discontinued operations, second-quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $3.8 billion ($0.35 per share attributable to common shareowners) in 2011 compared with $3.1 billion ($0.28 per share attributable to common shareowners) in the second quarter of 2010.
decreased 4% to $35.6 billion, up 7% excluding NBCU revenues. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues decreased 1% from last year to $12.4 billion. Industrial sales of $23.0 billion decreased 6% versus 2010.
Second-quarter revenues
generated from GE Industrial operating activities in the first six months of 2011 totaled $4.4 billion, down 31% from $6.3 billion last year.
Cash
 
 
 
2
 
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
GE will discuss preliminary second-quarter results on a webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure and finance company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aviation and power generation to financial services, healthcare solutions, oil and gas and rail, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's website at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; changes in Japanese consumer behavior that may affect our estimates of liability for excess interest refund claims (Grey Zone); potential financial implications from the Japanese natural disaster; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions, joint ventures and dispositions and our success in completing announced transactions and integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Andrew Williams, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.209.9694 (mobile)
andrew.williams2@ge.com
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2424 (office)
trevor.a.schauenberg@ge.com
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 30, 2011, information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to operating earnings, operating earnings per share, Industrial segment organic revenue growth, revenues excluding the impact of NBCU and cash generated from Industrial operating activities (Industrial CFOA). The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures follow.
 
 
 
Operating earnings excludes non-service related pension costs of our principal pension plans comprising interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of actuarial gains/losses. The service cost and prior service cost components of our principal pension plans are included in operating earnings. We believe that these components of pension cost better reflect the ongoing service-related costs of providing pension benefits to our employees. As such, we believe that our measure of operating earnings provides management and investors with a useful measure of the operational results of our business. Other components of GAAP pension cost are mainly driven by market performance, and we manage these separately from the operational performance of our businesses. Neither GAAP nor operating pension costs are necessarily indicative of the current or future cash flow requirements related to our pension plan. We also believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides management and investors with additional information for comparison of our operating results to the operating results of other companies.
 
Organic revenue growth measures revenue excluding the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions and currency exchange rates.  We believe that this measure provides management and investors with a more complete understanding of underlying operating results and trends of established, ongoing operations by excluding the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange, which activities are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying trends.  We also believe that presenting organic revenue growth separately for our industrial businesses provides management and investors with useful information about the trends of our industrial businesses and enables a more direct comparison to other non-financial businesses and companies.  Management recognizes that the term "organic revenue growth" may be interpreted differently by other companies and under different circumstances. Although this may have an effect on comparability of absolute percentage growth from company to company, we believe that these measures are useful in assessing trends of the respective businesses or companies and may therefore be a useful tool in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2
 
 
 
 
 
During the first quarter of 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast Corporation transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, in which we now hold a 49% interest.  Consolidated revenues include revenues from NBCU operations prior to this transfer as well as the transaction related gain. We have provided the percentage of revenue growth excluding the impact of NBCU, as the volatility related to NBCU revenues can obscure underlying trends.  We believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure of consolidated revenues, provides management and investors with additional information that is useful in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
 
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2
 


