FILE:GE/GE-8K-20111021070933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
(1)
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 21, 2011, General Electric Company (the Company) issued a press release setting forth GEs third-quarter 2011 earnings. A copy of GEs press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this report:
 
Exhibit Description
 
99  Press release, dated: October 21, 2011, issued by General Electric Company
 
 
(2)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(3)
 

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GE [NYSE: GE] announced today third-quarter 2011 operating earnings of $3.4 billion, or $0.31 per share, up 11%, from the third quarter of 2010 (excluding effects of the preferred redemption).
FAIRFIELD, Conn.  October 21, 2011 
 
During the quarter, GE gave notice of redemption for the preferred stock held by Berkshire Hathaway, and subsequently redeemed the shares on October 17, 2011 for $3.3 billion. As expected, the redemption resulted in a $0.08 per share one-time impact.  Including the impact of the preferred redemption, Continuing EPS was $0.22, down 21%.  Net EPS was $0.22, up 22%.  Going forward, retiring the Berkshire preferred stock will improve GEs annualized earnings per share by $0.03.
 
We are pleased to deliver our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit operating earnings growth in a volatile macro environment, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said.  We improved earnings, achieved solid double-digit infrastructure order growth, executed on our balanced capital allocation plan and maintained a strong balance sheet.  We ended the quarter with a record high order backlog of $191 billion and we remain confident in our full-year 2011 operating framework.
 
GE is aggressively investing in its growth platforms. Highlights from the quarter include the closing of GEs acquisition of Converteam, a leading provider of power conversion and automation systems and high-efficiency power electronics, motors and generators.  GE continued to build its global position, including announcing two Russian joint ventures that will help modernize the countrys healthcare and power generation sectors.
 
 
(1)
 
 
Industrial orders grew 16% as compared to the prior year quarter, which is the fourth straight quarter of double-digit growth.  GE also announced more than $3 billion in new customer wins across its Energy business during the quarter.  These included: $800 million of wins to supply gas and wind turbines for projects in Brazil that will produce 1.4 gigawatts of electricity  40% of the total amount awarded in energy auctions conducted recently by Brazils National Electric Power Agency.  Other industrial wins included Delta Airlines announcing that it had ordered 100 Next-Generation 737-900ER aircraft powered by CFM56-7BE engines.
 
GEs third quarter Industrial segment revenues were $23.4 billion, up 19%.  Revenues for the quarter were $35.4 billion, up 12% excluding the impact of NBCU.  GEs Industrial segments experienced double-digit revenue growth both domestically and internationally with international revenues up 25% driven by strong double-digit growth in Brazil, Russia, China, India, Canada, Mexico and the Middle East.
 
GE Capital executed across all of its businesses, earning $1.5 billion after tax, an increase of 79% from the third quarter of last year, Immelt said.  We grew GE Capital volume to $43 billion, up 15%.  GE Capitals margins remained strong at 5.4% year-to-date and the business continues to benefit from the credit cycle recovery.  GE Capital continued to strengthen its capital ratios and liquidity during the quarter.  GECC and GECS Tier 1 common ratios were up to 11.0% and 9.6% and we have reduced leverage across the portfolio.
 
Total segment profit was up 15% to $4.7 billion.  Margins declined from a year-ago primarily driven by Wind pricing in Energy.  GE expects Industrial margins to improve sequentially in the fourth quarter.  Cash generated from Industrial operating activities for the first nine months of 2011 totaled $6.5 billion.  At quarter-end GE had $91 billion of consolidated cash.  GEs cash position enabled the Company to repurchase $1 billion of common stock during the third quarter and has enabled $3.7 billion in stock repurchases since the buyback program was restarted in the third quarter of 2010.
 
We continue to successfully navigate a volatile global economy, Immelt said.  Our investment in research and development and global expansion is paying off with robust organic growth.  Our liquidity is strong.  GE Capital is safe and secure, with increasing competitive advantage.  Our balanced capital allocation plan is reducing share count, sustaining a strong dividend yield and funding growth.  We are well positioned to execute on our operating framework in 2011 and achieve double-digit operating EPS growth in 2012.
 
Third-quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
 
were $3.4 billion, up 11% from $3.1 billion in the third quarter of 2010 and Operating EPS excluding the preferred redemption impact was $0.31, up 11% from $0.28 per share in the third quarter of last year.  GAAP earnings from continuing operations (attributable to GE) were $3.2 billion, up 4%, or $0.22 per share, down 21% from the prior year quarter.
Third-quarter operating earnings
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
Including the effects of discontinued operations, third-quarter net earnings attributable to GE were $3.2 billion in 2011 compared with $2.1 billion in the third quarter of 2010, up 57%.  Net EPS was up 22%.
 
Positive items in the quarter were offset by one-time charges.
 
were $35.4 billion for the quarter, up 12% excluding the impact of NBCU, and were flat compared to revenues of $35.4 billion from the prior years quarter. Industrial sales of $23.2 billion decreased 2% compared to 2010 and increased 18% excluding NBCU. GE Capital Services (GECS) revenues of $12.0 billion were up 1% from the third quarter of 2010.
Third-quarter revenues
 
generated from GE Industrial operating activities for the first nine months of 2011 totaled $6.5 billion, down 35% from $10.1 billion for the comparable period of 2010.
Cash
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the Companys financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
GE will discuss preliminary third-quarter results on a webcast at 8:30 a.m. ET today, available at .  Related charts will be posted there prior to the webcast.
www.ge.com/investors
 
 
 
GE (NYSE: GE) is a diversified infrastructure and finance company taking on the worlds toughest challenges. From aviation and power generation to financial services, healthcare solutions, oil and gas and rail, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit the company's website at . 
www.ge.com
 
 
:
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
This document contains forward-looking statements  that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, or will. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets; potential market disruptions or other impacts arising in the United States or Europe from developments in the European sovereign debt situation; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporations (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECCs asset levels as planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; changes in Japanese consumer behavior that may affect our estimates of liability for excess interest refund claims (Grey Zone); potential financial implications from the Japanese natural disaster; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level; our ability to
 
 
 
(3)
 
 
convert customer wins (which represent pre-order commitments) into orders; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, real estate and healthcare; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions, joint ventures and dispositions and our success in completing announced transactions and integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
Investor Contact:
Trevor Schauenberg, 203.373.2424 (office)
trevor.a.schauenberg@ge.com
 
Media Contact:
Kenny Juarez, 203.373.3061 (office); 203.224.9854 (mobile)
kenneth.juarez@ge.com
 
 
(4)
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts and share amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars; unaudited. Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 30, 2011, information is unaudited.  Supplemental consolidating data are shown for "GE" and "GECS." Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "Consolidated" columns. See Note 1 to the 2010 consolidated financial statements at www.ge.com/ar2010 for further information about consolidation matters.
 
 
 
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. We have referred to operating earnings, operating earnings per share, operating earnings per share excluding the effects of the preferred stock redemption, Industrial organic revenue growth, revenues excluding the impact of NBCU, Industrial sales excluding the impact of NBCU and cash generated from Industrial operating activities (Industrial CFOA). The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures follow.
 
 
Operating earnings excludes non-service related pension costs of our principal pension plans comprising interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of actuarial gains/losses. The service cost and prior service cost components of our principal pension plans are included in operating earnings. We believe that these components of pension cost better reflect the ongoing service-related costs of providing pension benefits to our employees. As such, we believe that our measure of operating earnings provides management and investors with a useful measure of the operational results of our business. Other components of GAAP pension cost are mainly driven by market performance, and we manage these separately from the operational performance of our businesses. Neither GAAP nor operating pension costs are necessarily indicative of the current or future cash flow requirements related to our pension plan. We also believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides management and investors with additional information for comparison of our operating results to the operating results of other companies. We also believe that operating EPS excluding the effects of the $806 million preferred dividend related to the redemption of our preferred stock (calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the redemption value of the preferred stock) is a meaningful measure because it increases the comparability of period-to-period results.
 
 
 
 
 Page 1 of 3
 
 
 
Organic revenue growth measures revenue excluding the effects of acquisitions, business dispositions and currency exchange rates.  We believe that this measure provides management and investors with a more complete understanding of underlying operating results and trends of established, ongoing operations by excluding the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency exchange, which activities are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying trends.  We also believe that presenting organic revenue growth separately for our industrial businesses provides management and investors with useful information about the trends of our industrial businesses and enables a more direct comparison to other non-financial businesses and companies.  Management recognizes that the term "organic revenue growth" may be interpreted differently by other companies and under different circumstances. Although this may have an effect on comparability of absolute percentage growth from company to company, we believe that these measures are useful in assessing trends of the respective businesses or companies and may therefore be a useful tool in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
During the first quarter of 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast Corporation transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, in which we now hold a 49% interest.  Consolidated revenues include revenues from NBCU operations prior to this transfer as well as the transaction related gain. We have provided the percentage of revenue growth excluding the impact of NBCU, as the volatility related to NBCU revenues can obscure underlying trends.  We believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure of consolidated revenues, provides
management and investors with additional information that is useful in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
 
 
 
    
Page 2 of 3
 
During the first quarter of 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast Corporation transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, in which we now hold a 49% interest. GE sales include sales from NBCU operations prior to this transfer. We have provided the percentage of Industrial sales growth excluding the impact of NBCU, as the volatility related to NBCU sales can obscure underlying trends.  We believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure of GE sales, provides management and investors with additional information that is useful in assessing period-to-period performance trends.
We define Industrial CFOA as GEs cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GEs operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.
 
 
Page 3 of 3
 


