FILE:GE/GE-8K-20120430165917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On April 25, 2012, the shareowners of General Electric Company (the "Company") approved an amendment to the GE 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") at the annual meeting of shareowners, which (1) authorizes an additional 425 million shares for issuance under the Plan; (2) increases the underlying limit on the number of shares available for incentive stock options (by the same 425 million); (3) decreases the underlying limit on the number of shares available for awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights from 250 million to 230 million, such that the overall limit on awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights represent 25% of the total authorized share reserve under the Plan; (4) explicitly prohibits paying dividends or dividend equivalents on stock options and stock appreciation rights; and (5) updates outdated accounting standards references. The material terms of the Plan are summarized on pages 42 through 44 of the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2012 (the "Proxy Statement"), which description is incorporated by reference herein. This description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Plan, as amended, which are set forth in Appendix A to the Proxy Statement.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a) The annual meeting of shareowners of the Company was held on April 25, 2012.
(b) The shareowners elected all of the Company's nominees for director; ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year 2012; approved the advisory resolution to approve executive compensation; approved the amendment to the GE 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan to increase the number of authorized shares; and approved the material terms of senior officer performance goals. The shareowners did not approve any of the shareowner proposals, which are listed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


