FILE:GE/GE-8K-20120723164651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On July 20, 2012, General Electric Company (the Company or GE) announced that in connection with the reorganization of GEs Energy Infrastructure business Mr. John Krenicki will resign from his position as Vice Chairman and an executive officer of the Company at year end.
In connection with Mr. Krenickis resignation, on July 17, 2012, the Company and Mr. Krenicki entered into a three-year, world-wide non-competition agreement and GE has agreed to certain compensation arrangements, including (i) Mr. Krenickis stock options and restricted stock units that were scheduled to vest on or before December 31, 2014 will vest, (ii) Mr. Krenicki will be eligible to receive a 2012 annual cash bonus under GEs normal process, such bonus not to be less than $2.9 million, and will be eligible to receive a payment upon settlement of his previously granted 2010 through 2012 long term performance award based upon actual performance, (iii) Mr. Krenicki will vest at age 60 under the GE Supplementary Pension Plan with benefits based on his approximately 29 years of service as of the separation date, (iv) Mr. Krenicki will receive a monthly retirement allowance of approximately $89,000 until he reaches age 60, and (v) the Company will maintain Mr. Krenickis eligibility under applicable supplemental life insurance and health and welfare benefit plan arrangements.
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On July 20,2012, GE announced that it will reorganize its GE Energy Infrastructure business into three stand-alone businesses, effective in the fourth quarter of 2012, and that its Energy Infrastructure organizational layer will be phased out by the end of 2012. As a result, the three new businesses, which will report directly to GE CEO and Chairman Jeff Immelt, will be:
 
GE will begin reporting separate segment financial results for these three businesses beginning with the fourth quarter of 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)
 
 


