FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20041004123543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 28, 2004, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Multi-Year $400 Million Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with a consortium of lenders (the "Lenders") and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender. The Credit Agreement creates a $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility that the Company can draw upon for general corporate purposes or use to support its commercial paper program. The Credit Agreement expires on September 28, 2009. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.39%, or in the event over half of the facility is drawn on, LIBOR plus 0.515%, in each case subject to adjustment in the event of a change in the Company's credit ratings. Bank of America, N.A. and certain other Lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement are also parties to the Company's separate $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in September 2008. In addition, Bank of America provides investment banking services to the Company from time to time.
The Credit Agreement contains various operating and financial covenants that are the same as the covenants under the Company's $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility. Specifically, the Company must have a leverage ratio (defined as the ratio of funded debt to EBITDA (net earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization)) not exceeding 3.0 to 1.0, and an interest coverage ratio (defined as the ratio of EBITDA to interest charges) not less than 3.5 to 1.0. The Company also has limitations on additional liens or subsidiary indebtedness and limitations on certain acquisitions, investments and dispositions of assets. However, the Credit Agreement does not include provisions for the termination of the agreement or the acceleration of repayment due to changes in the Company's credit ratings.
Item 2.03 .
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
As described under Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K, on September 28, 2004 the Company entered into a $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility. No amounts have been borrowed under this facility.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized on this 4 day of October, 2004.
th


