FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20050808122845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective August 4, 2005, Mr. John W. Brown was appointed as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, and a member of the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. Mr. Brown is in the class of directors whose term will expire at the next Annual Shareholders Meeting, which will be in 2006. Mr. Brown is deemed to be an independent director.
Mr.  Brown is Chairman of the Board of Stryker Corporation and served as Chief Executive Officer of Stryker from 1977 to January 1, 2005. A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Brown is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Brown and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Brown was selected as a director.
During the last two years, Mr. Brown has had no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction to which the Company was a party.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
ST.  PAUL, MN, August 4, 2005  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE:STJ) today announced the election of John W. Brown to a newly-created position on its Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Brown is Chairman of the Board of Stryker Corp., a worldwide leader in orthopaedic medical devices, and served as Chief Executive Officer of Stryker from 1977 to January 1, 2005.
"We are extremely pleased to have John Brown join the St. Jude Medical Board of Directors," said Dan Starks, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Jude Medical. "John is one of the most well-respected medical device executives in the industry and his insight and experience will be a terrific addition to the St. Jude Medical Board. We welcome John and look forward to his contributions."
St.  Jude Medical, Inc. (www.sjm.com) is dedicated to the design, manufacture and distribution of innovative medical devices of the highest quality, offering physicians, patients and payers outstanding clinical performance and demonstrated economic value.


