FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20051205171015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends and supplements the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") on November 21, 2005 (the "Initial Form 8-K") to include financial statements and pro forma financial information permitted pursuant to Item 9.01 of Form 8-K to be excluded from the Initial Form 8-K and filed by amendment to the Initial Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date the Initial Form 8-K was required to be filed.
On November 16, 2005, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 15, 2005 by and among St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation ("St. Jude Medical"), Apollo Merger Corp., a Texas corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude Medical ("Purchaser"), and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., a Texas corporation ("ANS"), Purchaser acquired approximately 78 percent of the outstanding common stock of ANS (not including approximately 11 percent of the outstanding shares of common stock of ANS tendered subject to notices of guaranteed delivery), giving St. Jude Medical control of ANS. Purchaser and St. Jude Medical acquired the remaining shares of ANS (those not delivered during the initial tender offer period that expired at midnight on November 15, 2005 or pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery delivered during the initial tender offer period) through a subsequent offering period that began at 9:00 a.m., eastern time, on November 16, 2005 and expired at 5:00 p.m., eastern time, on November 28, 2005 and a "short-form" merger between Purchaser and ANS on Tuesday, November 29, 2005. In the merger, each outstanding share of ANS common stock that was not tendered to Purchaser during the initial tender offer period or the subsequent offering period or pursuant to a notice of guaranteed delivery delivered to Purchaser during the subsequent offering period was converted into the right to receive $61.25 in cash per share, without interest, the same consideration paid for shares tendered in the offer, subject to dissenters' rights. ANS will continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude Medical.
Item 9.01 (a) Financial Statements of the Business Acquired
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and stockholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These consolidated financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 11, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Dallas, Texas March 11, 2005
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
(1) Business
Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. (the Company or ANS) designs, develops, manufactures and markets implantable neuromodulation devices. ANS devices are used primarily to manage chronic severe pain. The Company also provides contract development and custom manufacturing, also known as O.E.M. or original equipment manufacturing, for other medical device companies through the Hi-tronics Designs, Inc. (HDI) subsidiary and through operations in Portland, Oregon (formerly the Cable and Wire Division of microHelix, Inc., which was acquired in April 2004). ANS neuromodulation revenues are derived primarily from sales throughout the United States, Europe and Australia while O.E.M. revenues are derived within the United States.
On July 11, 2003, the Company effected a 3 for 2 stock split in the form of a 50% stock dividend (one share of common stock paid for every two shares held), paid to shareholders of record on June 20, 2003. All prior period shares, share prices, and income per share figures have been restated to reflect the split.
The research and development, manufacture, sale and distribution of medical devices is subject to extensive regulation by various public agencies, principally the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and corresponding state, local and foreign agencies. Product approvals and clearances can be delayed or withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.
In addition, ANS neuromodulation products are purchased by hospitals and other users who then bill various third-party payors including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance companies and managed care organizations, and workers' compensation programs. ANS also sells and bills its neuromodulation products directly to third-party payors including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance companies and managed care organizations, and workers' compensation programs. These third-party payors reimburse fixed amounts for products and services based on a specific diagnosis. The impact of changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies and any amendments to existing reimbursement rules and regulations that restrict or terminate the eligibility of ANS products could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
In January 2004, the Company began operations in Germany to sell its neuromodulation devices through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ANS Germany GmbH. Previously, the Company utilized a distributor in Germany, and this relationship was terminated in January 2004 at no cost to the Company. In April 2004, the Company began operations in Australia to sell its neuromodulation devices through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ANS Australia. Previously, the Company utilized a distributor in Australia, MedTel Pty Limited (formerly Getz Brothers Australia) based in Sydney, Australia (MedTel). The Company acquired certain assets of MedTel in April 2004 for approximately $1.1 million. The foreign subsidiaries' financial position and results of operations are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and income and expense accounts at average exchange rates during the period. Resulting translation adjustments are recorded directly to a separate component of stockholders' equity entitled Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).
(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reclassification
Certain amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the Company's 2004 presentation.
Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents.
Revenue Recognition
The Company generates revenues from product sales to end customers, product sales to international distributors, and development contracts. The Company sells products primarily through a direct sales force in the United States and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in international markets. A significant portion of revenue is generated from consigned inventory generally maintained with field representatives, which is recognized as revenue upon notification of implant or product usage. All other product sales to end customers and international distributors are recorded upon transfer of title and risk of loss to customers, provided an arrangement exists, the fee is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Estimated sales returns, discounts, and rebates are recorded as a reduction of sales when the related revenue is recognized. Certain of the Company's customers are third-party payors who reimburse fixed amounts for products based on a specific diagnosis. Revenue is recognized on these third-party payor sales based on the sales price less a contractual adjustment, which is based on the Company's history of reimbursement with the third-party payor, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company does not have any continuing obligation to its customers for installation or training, and there are no acceptance clauses in its customer arrangements.
The Company recognizes revenue on development contracts at its O.E.M. segment using either the percentage of completion method for fixed price development contracts, or as the services are performed for development contracts that are completed on a time and materials basis. The Company recognizes revenue using the percentage of completion method for the fixed price development agreements as the contract term can vary from 9 to 24 months, the Company's right to receive payment depends on its performance in accordance with the agreement, and the Company can reasonably estimate the costs applicable to various stages of the development arrangement. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred in relation to the estimated costs for the total project. If the Company does not accurately estimate the resources required or the scope of work to be performed under a fixed price development agreement, then future profit margins and result of operations may be negatively impacted.
Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of revenue. Payments received in advance of revenue recognition requirements are recorded as deferred revenue on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In 2003, the Company received a payment of $1.2 million related to a distribution agreement under which the Company has granted the exclusive rights to market certain of its neuromodulation products in Japan. Of such payment, $1.0 million was recorded as deferred revenue and is being amortized into revenue over the length of the distribution agreement, which at the date of payment was 9.25 years. At December 31, 2004, the balance of the deferred revenue under the agreement was $804,147.
Investments
The Company's investments in marketable equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in a separate component of stockholders' equity entitled Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). The cost of debt securities in this category is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is included in investment income. Realized gains and losses and declines in value judged to be other than temporary are included in other income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Interest and dividends are included in investment income. The Company considers its investments in its available-for-sale marketable securities to be available for current operations, and as such all of the Company's marketable securities are classified as short-term marketable investments.
The Company holds minority investments in preferred stock, which are stated at cost given the ownership percentage is less than 10%, and represents a long-term investment in two private companies made for business purposes. Consistent with the Company's policies for other long-lived assets, the carrying value of these long-term strategic investments is periodically reviewed for impairment whenever triggering events occur that may indicate the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value.
Accounts Receivable
The Company estimates the collectibility of its trade receivables. A considerable amount of judgment is required in assessing the ultimate realization of the receivables, including the current credit-worthiness of each customer, the aging of receivables and historical experience. The Company's historical bad debt experience has been within management's expectations.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of standard cost or market. Standard cost approximates actual cost determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. Cost includes the acquisition cost of raw materials and components, direct labor and overhead. The Company reserves for excess and obsolete inventory based upon forecasted demand for its products.
Property, Equipment and Fixtures
Equipment and fixtures are stated at cost. Additions and improvements extending asset lives are capitalized while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The cost and accumulated depreciation of assets sold or retired are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various assets as follows:
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses, and is subject to an annual impairment test. During the first quarter of 2005, the Company performed its annual review for impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2004 and, based on this review, no impairment was recorded. The Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets in assessing the recoverability of its goodwill. If these estimates or the related assumptions change, the Company may be required to record impairment charges for these assets in the future.
The Company's definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. In such reviews, the related undiscounted cash flows expected are compared with their carrying values to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. At December 31, 2004, the Company does not believe there has been any impairment of its intangible assets. Costs of patents that are the result of internal development are charged to current operations. The cost of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions is amortized on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful life:
The Company expects to record annual amortization expense of approximately $2,530,000 in 2005, $2,460,000 in 2006, $2,370,000 in 2007, $2,170,000 in 2008 and $2,100,000 in 2009 related to its intangible assets as of December 31, 2004.
Warranty Obligations
The Company's products are generally covered by a one-year limited warranty. The Company accrues a warranty reserve for estimated costs to provide warranty services. The estimated costs to service the Company's warranty obligations are based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions and have been within management's expectations.
Research and Development
Product development costs including start-up and research and development are charged to operations in the year in which such costs are incurred.
Advertising
Advertising expense is charged to operations in the year in which such costs are incurred. Total advertising expense, included in sales and marketing expense was $181,201, $108,333, and $74,673 at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Deferred Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability method as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS 109). Under the liability method, deferred taxes are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company accounts for its stock-based employee compensation plans in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related interpretations. Under APB 25, no compensation expense is recognized for stock option grants to employees if the exercise price of the Company's stock option grants is at or above fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of the grant. Stock-based compensation to non-employees is measured at fair market value over the service period and recorded as compensation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recorded $115,892, $845,480 and $123,492 of compensation expense for stock compensation to non-employees in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company has adopted the pro-forma disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123), as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure." The following table illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share amounts if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to stock-based employee compensation:
For purposes of the pro-forma disclosures above, the weighted average fair value per stock option granted in fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002 was $10.81, $11.54, and $8.78, respectively. The fair value was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the additional dilutive effect, if any, of stock options using the treasury stock method based on the average market price of the stock during the period. The following table presents the reconciliation of basic and diluted shares:
See Note 7 for a description of these instruments.
(1)
For 2004, 2003 and 2002 the incremental shares used for dilutive earnings per share relate to stock options whose exercise price was less than the average market price in the underlying quarterly computations. Options to purchase 589,828 shares at an average price of $37.14 per share were outstanding in 2004 and options to purchase 5,512 shares at an average price of $31.91 per share were outstanding in 2003, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive. In 2002, all options were included in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Following is the Company's computation of basic and diluted income per share for the years ended December 31:
Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all other non-owner changes in equity net of tax effects, and consists of net income, unrealized gains or losses on the Company's available for sale securities, and foreign currency translation adjustments. Comprehensive income statements are included in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.
Components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) are net of tax and are as follows:
The tax benefit (expense) on the unrealized gains (losses) on marketable securities was $(8,556,625), $10,181 and $7,655 at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively. The tax benefit on foreign currency translation adjustment was $12,297 at December 31, 2004.
(3) Business Combinations and Asset Acquisitions
During 2003 and 2004, the Company completed the following four acquisitions of certain operations of the Company's existing Neuro Products segment distributors:
These transactions enable the Company to focus sales priorities on the Company's products, expand sales coverage and invest in customer and market development. The purchase price of these acquisitions was recorded as follows:
On April 21, 2004, the Company acquired certain assets of the Cable and Wire Division from microHelix, Inc. (microHelix), which operates out of Portland, Oregon. microHelix previously supplied coated fine wire, antennas, and certain other products to the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary HDI. The acquisition represents a vertical integration of a component supplier and provided the Company with additional engineering resources and intellectual property for the design and development of new products, notably leads, extensions, trial cables and related products. The purchase price was $2,177,679 consisting of $2,006,551 in cash, assumed liabilities of $131,574 and acquisition costs of $39,554. Thirty-three personnel from microHelix joined the Company upon consummation of the transaction. The assets and operations acquired are part of the O.E.M. segment. The purchase price allocation is as follows:
On November 26, 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of MicroNet Medical, Inc. (MicroNet), a privately held developer of medical devices based on proprietary micro-lead technology. MicroNet developed a line of very thin and steerable spinal cord stimulation leads called  leads. Under the terms of the transaction, which was structured as a merger, the Company acquired only MicroNet's proprietary technology and certain associated tangible assets, which are part of the Neuro Products segment. At closing, the Company paid the former MicroNet shareholders $500,000 in cash and 234,453 shares of ANS common stock valued at $4,648,421. The Company also paid acquisition related costs of $859,460, including an investment-banking fee of $600,000. In addition to the initial purchase price paid at closing, the Company agreed to pay the former MicroNet shareholders additional shares of ANS common stock if certain product, regulatory approval, and sales milestones are met. These milestones consist of three principal product milestones and a sales milestone. Each of the product milestones related to the delivery of specific products, and were met if and when the Company was able to submit, and when the Company received regulatory approvals, for products that were adapted for use directly with the Company's devices. The sales milestone will be met if and when $5 million in cumulative net sales are generated of MicroNet lead products during the four-years following the closing of the MicroNet transaction.
Axxess
The aggregate value of the additional potential milestone earn out payments payable in shares of ANS common stock was $9 million as measured at the closing of the MicroNet transaction. Of this $9 million in additional shares, a fixed number of ANS common shares totaling 134,409 with an aggregate value at closing of $3 million were issued into an escrow account. If and when the product and regulatory milestones were met, a specified and fixed number of ANS common shares were to be released from the escrow (which for purchase price accounting was valued at the time of release from escrow). In addition, if and when those same product and regulatory milestones were achieved, at that time a number of ANS common shares were to be issued with an aggregate value of up to $3 million. Finally, if and when $5 million in cumulative net sales are generated of MicroNet lead products during the four years after closing, at that time a number of ANS common shares will be issued with an aggregate value of up to $3 million.
The initial purchase price of the MicroNet acquisition was recorded in 2002 as follows:
As the MicroNet acquisition was effected through a stock-for-stock exchange, and therefore not tax deductible beyond MicroNet's existing tax basis, the Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $2,651,720 for the identified intangible assets related to the initial purchase price. The recording of the deferred tax liability resulted in additional basis in purchased technology of $1,396,224 and in additional tradenames of $74,410. In addition, the Company acquired MicroNet's net operating loss carryforward of approximately $3.4 million, which was recorded as a deferred tax asset of $1,181,086 (see Note 6).
In March 2003, two parts of the first major product milestone were satisfied, and 42,519 of ANS common shares were issued (of which 22,401 shares were released from escrow) with a value at the time of issuance and release from escrow of $1,020,059. In October 2003, another product milestone was satisfied, and 17,462 shares of ANS common shares were issued (of which 11,197 shares were released from escrow) with a value at the time of issuance and release from escrow of $700,182. In January 2004, an additional product milestone was satisfied, and 16,705 shares of ANS common stock were issued (of which 11,202 shares were released from escrow) with a value at the time of issuance and release from escrow of $767,511. The value of ANS common shares issued and released from escrow was allocated to certain identifiable intangible assets in accordance with the original purchase price allocation, and resulted in the following additions to identifiable intangible assets:
The Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $876,360 for the identified intangible assets related to the additional earn-out consideration issued. The deferred tax liability was allocated in accordance with the original purchase price allocation resulting in an additional $845,549 and $30,811 of purchased technology and tradenames, respectively.
In May 2004, the Company and the former MicroNet shareholders agreed that no further product milestone payments will be payable under the agreement because no further product milestones will be met. Consequently, 89,609 shares of ANS common stock held in escrow were returned to the Company. However, the former MicroNet shareholders may still earn additional ANS common stock with an aggregate value of $3 million if the Company generates $5 million in cumulative net sales of MicroNet lead products by November 2006. As a result of the May 2004 agreement with MicroNet, the Company reviewed the previously recorded identifiable intangible assets associated with the MicroNet acquisition and concluded there was no impairment of these intangible assets.
The results of operations for the acquisitions above have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income after the date of acquisition.
(4) Marketable Securities
The following is a summary of marketable debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2004:
In August 2004, the Company acquired 3,500,000 shares, or 14.7%, of the outstanding common stock of Cyberonics, Inc. in open market purchases. In February 2005, the Company sold the 3,500,000 shares and received gross proceeds on the sale of $135.3 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $85.2 million, net of acquisition costs, which will be recorded in the first quarter of 2005.
Maturities of the investment grade municipal bonds at December 31, 2004 is as follows: 2005: $24,801,194; 2006: $6,187,554; 2007: $11,871,321; 2008: $30,423; and 2010: $50,860.
The following is a summary of marketable debt securities classified as available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2003:
Estimated fair value for the investment grade marketable debt securities is provided by the brokerage firms holding such bonds and notes at each reporting period by utilizing a standard pricing service.
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, no individual debt security represented more than 7.8% and 7.5%, respectively of the total portfolio of debt securities, or 1.42% and 3.25%, respectively, of total assets. The Company did not have any investments in derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2004 or 2003.
(5) Minority Investments in Preferred Stock
In January 2003, the Company invested $1 million in cash to purchase preferred stock for a minority equity position in Innovative Spinal Technologies, Inc., a privately held start-up company that develops spine technologies, products and services through intellectual property development and contract research. This investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting due to the Company's minimal ownership percentage. The Company periodically reviews the valuation of this investment using available financial information from Innovative Spine Technologies, Inc. As of December 31, 2004, there were no indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value.
(6) Federal Income Taxes
The significant components of the net deferred tax liability at December 31, were as follows:
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a net operating loss carry forward of approximately $250,000, primarily related to the remaining net operating loss acquired in connection with the MicroNet acquisition which expires in years through 2021. In 2004 the Company utilized approximately $3.3 million of the $3.4 million net operating loss carryforward acquired from MicroNet. The Company's tax credits primarily relate to research and development credits, and will expire in years through 2024. The Company has not provided United States federal and state deferred income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in these foreign operations. At December 31, 2004, such earnings were approximately $600,000. Additional United States tax liabilities would be incurred should the Company remit a portion of these earnings.
The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the years ended December 31 consists of the following:
A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the expense calculated at the United States statutory rate follows:
(7) Stockholders' Equity
The Company has a Shareholder's Rights Plan, adopted in 1996 and amended in 2002, which permits shareholders to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at significant discounts in the event a person or group acquires more than 15% of the Company's common stock or announces a tender or exchange offer for more than 20% of the Company's common stock.
The Company issued 4,312,500 shares of common stock during May 2002 in an underwritten public offering. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of approximately $83.2 million.
In May 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock.
The Company has various stock option plans (the Plans) pursuant to which stock options may be granted to key employees, officers, directors and advisory directors of the Company. In accordance with the Plans, on January 1 of each year the aggregate number of shares of common stock reserved for options under the Plans is increased by the same percentage that the total number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock increased from the preceding January 1 to the following December 31 (if such percentage is positive). On January 1, 2003, 2004 and 2005, options to purchase 1,374,353 shares, 331,859 shares, and 198,413 shares of common stock, respectively, were added to the Plans.
Several of the Plans allow for the grant of incentive stock options to key employees and officers intended to qualify for preferential tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Under all of the Company's Plans, the exercise price of options granted must equal or exceed the fair market value of the common stock at the time of the grant. Options granted to employees and officers expire ten years from the date of grant and for the most part are exercisable one-fourth each year over a four-year period of continuous service. Options granted to directors and advisory directors expire six years from the date of grant and for the most part are exercisable one-fourth each year over a four-year period of continuous service. Certain options, however, have an eighteen-month, two-year, three-year, four year or five year vesting schedule.
At December 31, 2004, under all of the Company's Plans, 3,501,006 shares had been granted and were outstanding, 5,460,481 shares of common stock had been issued upon exercise, and 307,822 shares were reserved for future grants.
Data with respect to stock option plans of the Company are as follows:
(8) Commitments and Contingencies
The Company leases offices, manufacturing and research facilities, as well as office equipment under operating leases. Future minimum rental payments related to these operating leases at December 31, 2004 are as follows:
Total rent expense for offices, manufacturing and research facilities, and office equipment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $1,122,518, $1,190,319 and $1,063,097, respectively.
In late January 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General, Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), requesting documents related to certain of its sales and marketing, reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid billing, and certain other business practices. The Company is cooperating fully with the OIG's request for documents.
The Company is a party to product liability claims related to ANS neurostimulation devices. Product liability insurers have assumed responsibility for defending the Company against these claims. The Company seeks to maintain appropriate levels of product liability insurance with coverage comparable to that maintained by companies similar in size and serving similar markets. While historically product liability claims for ANS neurostimulation devices have not resulted in significant monetary liability for the Company beyond its insurance coverage, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur significant monetary liability to the claimants if such insurance is inadequate, and there can be no assurance that the Company's neurostimulation business and future ANS product lines will not be adversely affected by these product liability claims.
On April 21, 2004, the Company filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Sherman Division (Docket No. 4:404-CV-00131-PNB-DDB) (the Texas Action) against Advanced Bionics Corporation, asserting claims of patent infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets, tortious interference with contract, misappropriation of time, labor, skill, and money, violation of the Texas Theft Liability Act, conversion and constructive trust. The lawsuit alleges, among other things, that Advanced Bionics is infringing U.S. Patent No. 4,793,353 entitled "Non-Invasive Multiprogrammable Tissue Stimulator And Method." In addition, the lawsuit alleges that Advanced Bionics hired a former ANS employee to aid in the design, development and manufacture of its implantable stimulation lead, that Advanced Bionics misappropriated the former employee's knowledge of ANS' confidential, proprietary, and trade secret information with respect to ANS' implantable stimulation leads, and that this enabled Advanced Bionics to unfairly compete with ANS. The lawsuit seeks injunctive relief, compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On October 15, 2004, the judge in the Texas Action granted the Company's motion to amend its lawsuit to add two additional patent infringement claims against Advanced Bionics. One claim relates to the Company's patent covering the design and structure of its electrode lead (U.S. Patent No. 6,216,045). The second claim relates to the Company's trial cable connector patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,154,678). In addition, the judge denied Advanced Bionics' motion to dismiss the Texas Action. Advanced Bionics filed a California action in federal court seeking to resolve the Company's patent claims, which was subsequently dismissed. Advanced Bionics has also made motions to transfer the Texas Action to a California federal court, which the judge in the Texas Action has dismissed. On January 28, 2005, the judge in the Texas Action granted Advanced Bionic's motion to compel alternative dispute resolution of our trade secrets misappropriation claims, although the judge ruled that he retains jurisdiction over those claims. On March 11, 2005, Advanced Bionics filed its First Amended Answer and Counterclaims in the Texas Action, asserting, among other things, that the Company is infringing Advanced Bionics' U.S. Patent Nos. 6,516,277 and 6,381,496. Advanced Bionics claims that the Company is infringing these patents at least by marketing and selling rechargeable IPG systems, and Advanced Bionics may assert that the Company's newly-approved system does as well. These patents relate to changing operational parameters sets (6,381,496) and to a specific type of rechargeable spinal cord stimulation system (6,516,277). The counterclaims seek temporary restraining orders, permanent injunctions, compensatory damages, exemplary damages including treble damages, pre and post judgment interest, attorneys fees and such other relief as the court may grant. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against these claims, which the Company believes are meritless because, among other things, the Company believes the patents are not infringed or are invalid.
GenesisRC
Eon
Beginning March 1, 2005, several law firms announced the filing of class action securities lawsuits against the Company and certain of its officers and directors filed on behalf of purchasers of the Company's securities between April 24, 2003 and February 16, 2005, inclusive (the Class Period). As of March 10, 2005, the Company has not been served with any of these lawsuits. However, the Company has confirmed that at least two such lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas as follows: PLA, LLC vs. Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., et al, filed March 1, 2005; RAI Investment Club vs. Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., et al, filed March 9, 2005. These suits allege the Company violated federal securities laws by the issuance of false and misleading statements to the market regarding the Company's strong financial performance throughout the Class Period, which statements allegedly had the effect of artificially inflating the market price of the Company's securities. In particular, the claims allege improper marketing and sales practices accounted for the Company's revenue growth, citing, among other things, the public announcement that management made on February 17, 2005 that the Company had received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General, Department of Health and Human Services, requesting documents related to sales and marketing, reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid billing and other business practices. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory damages and costs and expenses of litigation. No class has been certified. Based on the various press releases, the Company believes the other lawsuits will contain similar allegations. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against the claims made in these lawsuits and believes the lawsuits are without merit.
Except for such litigation discussed above, and other ordinary routine litigation incidental or immaterial to its business, the Company is not currently a defendant to any other pending legal proceeding. The Company maintains general liability insurance against risks arising out of the normal course of business.
Under the Company's sales agreements with its independent sales agents, the Company can terminate those agreements without cause by paying an early termination fee equal to 100% of the commissions that would otherwise be payable on sales in the territory for the 90 days after termination and 50% of the commission that would otherwise be payable on sales in the territory for the 90 day period after the first 90 day period.
In addition, under its distributor agreements, sales agent agreements and certain other ordinary course commercial contracts with third parties, the Company typically agrees to indemnify the other contracting party from damages and costs that may arise from product liability claims. The terms of the agreements and contracts vary and the potential exposure under these indemnities cannot reasonably be estimated or determined. The Company currently is not aware of any indemnification claims, nor has the Company had any indemnification claims historically.
(9) Financial Instruments, Risk Concentration and Major Customers
In the United States, the Company's accounts receivable from its Neuro Products segment are due primarily from hospitals, insurance companies and Medicare. Internationally, the Company's accounts receivable from its Neuro Products segment are due primarily from distributors, except for Germany and Australia where the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries sell to hospitals, insurance companies, and distributors. For the O.E.M segment, all of the accounts receivable are due from privately held and publicly traded medical device companies based in the United States. The Company generally does not require collateral for trade receivables. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon expected collectibility. Any losses from bad debts have historically been within management's expectations.
The Company had no customer with net sales greater than 10% of net revenue during 2004 and 2003 as a result of the March 2003 acquisition of the pain management business of Sun Medical, Inc., the Company's largest distributor for which net sales for the year ended December 31, 2002 of implantable neurostimulation systems represented 11% of net revenue (14% of Neuro Products segment net revenue). Net sales of O.E.M products and services to one customer for the year ended December 31, 2002, represented 12% of net revenue (63% of O.E.M segment net revenue).
Net sales of O.E.M. products and services to two customers for the year ended December 31, 2004, as a percentage of net revenue from the O.E.M. segment were 55% and 15%, respectively. Net sales of O.E.M. products and services to two customers for the year ended December 31, 2003, as a percentage of net revenue from the O.E.M. segment were 76% and 13%, respectively. Net sales of O.E.M. products and services to two customers for the year ended December 31, 2002, as a percentage of net revenue from the O.E.M. segment were 63% and 26%, respectively.
Foreign sales, primarily Europe and Australia, for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were approximately 10%, 7% and 8% of net revenue from the Neuro Products segment, respectively. The O.E.M. segment had no foreign sales for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
(10) Employee Benefit Plans
The Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan (the Plan) available to substantially all employees. The Plan permits employees to elect salary deferral contributions of up to 15% of their compensation and requires the Company to make matching contributions equal to 50% of the participants' contributions to a maximum of 6% of the participants' compensation. The Board of Directors may change the percentage of matching contribution under the plan at their discretion. The Company's contributions for the years ended December 31 were $845,033 in 2004, $475,012 in 2003 and $346,125 in 2002.
(11) Accrued Tax Abatement Liability
In September 2003, the Company was absolved from any liability associated with a tax abatement agreement assigned to a third-party in 1999 as the conditions under the agreement were satisfied by the third-party. Accordingly, the Company reversed the previously established liability of $969,204 in September 2003 to other income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
(12) Segment Information
The Company operates in two business segments. The Neuro Products segment designs, develops, manufactures and markets implantable medical devices that are used to manage chronic intractable pain and other disorders of the central nervous system through the delivery of electrical current or drugs directly to targeted nerve fibers. The O.E.M. segment provides contract development and O.E.M. manufacturing primarily of electromechanical medical devices. Intersegment revenue is billed at cost with no intercompany mark-up.
Segment data as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004 is as follows:
Segment data as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003 is as follows:
Segment data as of and for the year ended December 31, 2002 is as follows:
(13) New Accounting Standard
On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS(R)), which is a revision of SFAS 123. SFAS 123(R) supersedes APB 25, and amends FASB Statement No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows." Generally, the approach in SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS 123. However, SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative.
SFAS 123(R) must be adopted no later than July 1, 2005. Early adoption will be permitted in periods in which financial statements have not yet been issued. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005.
SFAS 123(R) permits public companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods:
The Company is currently assessing the method by which SFAS 123(R) will be adopted.
As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company currently accounts for share-based payments to employees using ABP 25's intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognizes no compensation cost for employee stock options. Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS 123(R)'s fair value method will have a significant impact on the Company's result of operations, although it will have no impact on the Company's overall financial position. The impact of adoption of SFAS 123(R) cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. However, had the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) in prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in Note 2. SFAS 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. While the Company cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future (because they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options), the amount of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions were $5,102,954, $9,786,072, and $1,847,438 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Item 9.01 (b) Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
On November 29, 2005, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the Company) completed its acquisition of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. (ANS) for $61.25 per share in cash. The total consideration for all of the ANS common stock and outstanding vested employee stock options was approximately $1.3 billion. ANS designs, develops, manufactures and markets implantable neuromodulation devices used primarily to manage chronic severe pain. The initial purchase price was funded using existing cash balances and through the issuance of approximately $600 million of commercial paper notes. The Company intends to refinance the outstanding commercial paper notes using convertible senior debentures.
The aggregate ANS purchase price was allocated on a preliminary basis to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and goodwill acquired as a result of the ANS acquisition (in thousands):
In connection with the acquisition of ANS, the Company recorded developed and core technology as well as trademarks and tradename intangible assets that have estimated useful lives of 15 years.
During the fourth quarter of 2005, we will record an after-tax purchased in-process research and development (IPR&D) charge of $107.4 million. The valuation of IPR&D was based upon an analysis of technologies that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no future alternative use. The valuation considered expected future cash flows and was discounted for risks and uncertainties related to target markets and completion of products.
In addition, the Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $103.6 million related to the tax impact of amortization that is attributable to the identified intangible assets acquired in the acquisition. The remaining net tangible assets acquired were not significant.
The goodwill recorded as a result of the ANS acquisition is not deductible for income tax purposes and was allocated entirely to the Company's newly created Neuromodulation operating segment. The goodwill recognized represents future product opportunities that did not have regulatory approval at the date of acquisition.
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements are based on our historical consolidated financial statements and ANS' historical consolidated financial statements included in this Form 8-K/A, and adjusted to give effect to our acquisition of ANS and to the issuance of our convertible senior debentures. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 give effect to the ANS acquisition and issuance of the convertible senior debentures as if they had occurred on January 1, 2004. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of September 30, 2005 gives effect to the ANS acquisition and the issuance of the convertible senior debentures as if they had occurred on September 30, 2005.
The pro forma adjustments are based on the preliminary information available at the time of the preparation of this document. The Company made pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements to give effect to events that are (i) directly attributable to the acquisition, (ii) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, and (iii) factually supportable. The pro forma adjustments do not reflect any operating efficiencies or additional costs that may result with respect to the combined business of the Company and ANS. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of earnings exclude the $107.4 million IPR&D charge as it is non-recurring in nature. However, it is reflected as a decrease in the retained earnings on the unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with the:
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information may not be indicative of the results that actually would have occurred if the acquisition of ANS had been completed on the dates indicated or which may be obtained in the future.
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
St. Jude Medical, Inc. and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Earnings Year ended December 31, 2004
See notes to unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
St. Jude Medical, Inc. and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Earnings Nine months ended September 30, 2005
See notes to unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
St. Jude Medical, Inc. and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet September 30, 2005
See notes to unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following is a description of pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of earnings:
The following is a description of pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 33-9262, Registration Statement No. 33-41459, Registration Statement No. 33-48502, Registration Statement No. 33-54435, Registration Statement No. 333-42945, Registration Statement No. 333-42658, Registration Statement No. 333-42668, and Registration Statement No. 333-96697 on Forms S-8 of St. Jude Medical, Inc. of our report dated March 11, 2005, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. included in this Form 8-K/A of St. Jude Medical, Inc.
/s/   ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Dallas, Texas December 2, 2005


