FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20051212093356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 1.01.   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
        On December 6, 2005, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC (the "Underwriter"), whereby the Company agreed to sell and the Underwriter agreed to purchase, subject to and upon terms and conditions set forth therein, $600 million in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2035 (the "Debentures") to be issued under the Indenture referred to below. In addition, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company granted to the Underwriter an option to purchase up to an additional $60 million in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures, which was exercised in full. The Debentures are being offered and sold under the Company's effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-130138) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 5, 2005. The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and customary conditions to closing, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties and termination provisions. The Underwriter and its affiliates have provided and may in the future provide, various investment banking, commercial banking and other financial services to the Company for which services they have received, and may in the future receive, customary fees. The Underwriter acted as the Company's advisor and dealer-manager in connection with the Company's acquisition of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and received customary fees in connection therewith. In addition, an affiliate of Banc of America is an agent and lender under certain of the Company's credit facilities and receives customary fees in connection therewith. The Underwriter also acts as a dealer under the Company's commercial paper program.
        On December 12, 2005, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with U.S. Bank National Association ("U.S. Bank"), a national banking association, as trustee, regarding the Debentures. The Indenture sets forth the rights and governing provisions of the Debentures, including:
        .   The Company will pay interest on the Debentures on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning June 15, 2006, at an annual rate of 2.800%. In addition, the Company will pay contingent interest during any six-month period from June 15 to December 14 and from December 15 to June 14, commencing with the period beginning December 15, 2006, if the average market price of a Debenture for the five consecutive trading days immediately before the last trading day before the relevant six-month period equals or exceeds 120% of the principal amount of the Debentures. The amount of contingent cash interest, if any, payable per Debenture in respect of any six-month period will equal 0.25% per year of the average trading price of a Debenture for the five trading day period referred to above.
Interest Payments
        .   The Debentures will be convertible, at the holder's option, into cash and shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.10 per share, if any, at a conversion rate of 15.5009 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $64.51 per share), subject to adjustment as described in the Indenture, at any time before the stated maturity, from and after the date of the following events:
Conversion
        On conversion, the Company will deliver cash equal to the lesser of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be converted and the Company's total conversion obligation and shares of the Company's common stock in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company's conversion obligation. If certain corporate transactions occur on or before December 15, 2006, the Company will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of common stock or, in lieu thereof, the Company may in certain circumstances, elect to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligation so that the Debentures are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company.
        .   The Company may redeem some or all of the Debentures for cash at any time on or after December 15, 2006 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any, to the redemption date.
Redemption
        .   The Debenture holders may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Debentures on December 15, 2006, 2008, 2010, 2015, 2020, 2025 and 2030 or, subject to specified conditions, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as described in the Indenture), in each case, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any, to the repurchase date.
Repurchase
        U.S. Bank is a lender under the Company's Multi-Year $350,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2003, among the Company, as the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. and ABN Amro Bank N.V., as Co-Syndication Agents, Bank One, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the other lenders party thereto and is also a lender under the Company's Multi-Year $400,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2004, among the Company, as the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as Syndication Agents, Bank One, NA, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Suntrust Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the other lenders party thereto.
        The foregoing descriptions do not purport to be complete descriptions of the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, the Debentures or the rights of the holders of the Debentures. Such descriptions are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the terms of the Indenture and the Form of Convertible Senior Debenture Due 2035, which are attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to  be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   December 12, 2005

EXHIBIT 1.1
December 6, 2005
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 9 West 57 Street New York, NY 10019     As Representative of the several Underwriters
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
           St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the "Underwriters") $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2035 (the "Firm Debentures"). In addition, the Company has granted to the Underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional $60 million in aggregate principal amount of its 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2035 (the "Optional Debentures"), as provided in Section 2. The Firm Debentures and, if and to the extent such option is exercised, the Optional Debentures are collectively called the "Debentures". Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS") has agreed to act as Representative of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representative") in connection with the offering and sale of the Debentures.
Introductory.
Schedule A
        To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on other than you, the terms "Representative" and "Underwriters" as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriter. The term "Underwriters" shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires.
Schedule A
        The Debentures will be convertible on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the Indenture (as defined below) into cash and shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"), if any. As used herein, "Conversion Shares" means the Common Stock to be received by the holders of the Debentures upon conversion of the Debentures pursuant to the terms of the Debentures and certain preferred stock purchase rights attached to such Common Stock.
        The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
        ECTION .   
S
1
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
        The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as follows:
        (a)   The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-130138), which contains a form of prospectus to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of the Debentures. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements,
exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective by the Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A, Rule 430B or, if applicable, Rule 430C under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), is called the "Registration Statement". Any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act is called the "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement", and from and after the date and time of filing of the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement the term "Registration Statement" shall include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. Any preliminary prospectus included in the Registration Statement or filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(a) of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the Securities Act is hereinafter called a "preliminary prospectus." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus relating to the Debentures that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the effective date of the Registration Statement (the "Effective Date") or, if no filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) is required, shall mean the form of final prospectus relating to the Debentures included in the Registration Statement at the Effective Date. The term "Statutory Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus, as amended or supplemented, relating to the Debentures that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to the Initial Sale Time (as defined herein), including any document incorporated by reference therein. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or as of the date of such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be; any reference to any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Exchange Act, and incorporated by reference in such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to refer to and include any annual report of the Company filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the Effective Date of the Registration Statement that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
        (b)      The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect and no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering have been instituted or are pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, are threatened by the Commission.
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
        Each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus when filed complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and, if filed by electronic transmission pursuant to EDGAR (except for format and other variations as may be permitted or required by Regulation S-T under the Securities Act), was identical to the copy thereof delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offer and sale of the Debentures. Each of the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, at the time it became effective and at the date hereof, complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. The Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as of its date, at the date hereof, at the time of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b), at the Closing Date (as defined herein) and at any Subsequent Closing Date (as defined herein), did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties set forth in the two immediately preceding sentences do not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification ("Form T-1") of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, or the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by the Representative expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representative consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof. There is no contract or other document required to be described in the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement which has not been described or filed as required.
        (c)   .   The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
        (d)   .   The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Statutory Prospectus, if any, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act, if any, identified in hereto (together with any other issuer free writing prospectus used in connection with the offering, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of 9:30 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement (the "Initial Sale Time"), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof. No statement of material fact included in the Prospectus has been omitted from the Disclosure Package available at the Initial Sale Time and no statement of material fact included in the Disclosure Package available at the Initial Sale Time that is required to be included in the Prospectus has been omitted therefrom.
Disclosure Package
Schedule B
        (e)   .   The Company is not an ineligible issuer and is a well-known seasoned issuer, in each case as defined under the Securities Act, in each case at the times specified in the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Debentures.
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
        (f)   .   Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Debentures or until any earlier date of which the Company notified or notifies the Representative as described in Section 3(d) did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, including any document incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. The foregoing sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
        (g)      The statements in each of the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus under the headings "Description of Capital Stock" and "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations", in the Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 under the caption "Item 1: Legal Proceedings," and in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the caption "Item 3: Legal Proceedings," insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
        (h)      The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the last Subsequent Closing Date (as defined below) and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Debentures, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Debentures other than a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representative or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
        (i)      This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
        (j)      The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, upon the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, was qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Indenture conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
Authorization of the Indenture.
        (k)      The Debentures have been duly authorized by the Company; when the Debentures are executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement on the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be (assuming due authentication of the Debentures by the Trustee), such Debentures will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Debentures will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
Authorization of the Debentures.
        (l)      The shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Debentures have been duly authorized and reserved and, when issued upon conversion of the Debentures in accordance with the terms of the Debentures, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and the issuance of such shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
Authorization of the Conversion Shares.
        (m)      There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
        (n)      Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, properties, operations or, to the knowledge of the Company, in the business prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change"); (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have entered into any transactions or agreements, other than in the ordinary course of business or as are disclosed in the Registration Statement, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one entity; and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company or, except for dividends paid to the Company or other subsidiaries, any of its subsidiaries on any class of capital stock or repurchase or redemption by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any class of capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change.
        (o)      Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the financial statements (which term as used in this Agreement includes the related notes thereto) and supporting schedules filed with the Commission as a part of the Registration Statement and included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are independent registered public accountants with respect to the Company and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. ("ANS") as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
Independent Accountants.
        (p)      The financial statements of the Company filed with the Commission as a part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. The supporting schedules of the Company included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein. Such financial statements and supporting schedules comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements or supporting schedules of the Company are required to be included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. To the knowledge of the Company, the financial statements of ANS filed with the Commission as a part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of ANS and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. To the knowledge of the Company, the supporting schedules of ANS included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein. To the knowledge of the Company, such financial statements and supporting schedules of ANS comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements or supporting schedules of ANS are required to be included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. The financial data set forth in each of the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" fairly present the information set forth therein on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements contained in the Registration Statement. The pro forma combined financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in each of the Statutory Prospectus, the Prospectus and the Registration Statement present fairly the information contained therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly presented on the basis described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
        (q)   .   The Company's ratios of earnings to fixed charges set forth in each of the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges" and in Exhibit 12.1 to the Registration Statement have been calculated in compliance with Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
Fixed Charges Coverage Ratio
        (r)      The Company does not own or control, directly or indirectly, any corporation, association or other entity other than the subsidiaries listed in documents furnished to you by the Company and ANS and its subsidiaries. The subsidiaries listed in Schedule C hereto are the only significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, as promulgated by the Commission) of the Company (the "Significant Subsidiaries"). Each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing (as applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (a "Material Adverse Effect"). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
        (s)      The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans or in connection with the acquisition of ANS as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus). The Common Stock (including the Conversion Shares) conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and have been issued in compliance with federal and state securities laws. None of the outstanding shares of Common Stock were issued in violation of any preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other similar rights to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company. There are no authorized or outstanding options, warrants, preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other rights to purchase, or equity or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any capital stock of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries other than those described in the Disclosure Package and stock options assumed or issued in connection with the acquisition of ANS. The description of the Company's (for the avoidance of doubt, not including ANS's) stock option, stock bonus and other stock plans or arrangements, and the options or other rights granted thereunder, set forth or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus constitutes, in all material respects, a fair summary of the information required to be shown with respect to such plans, arrangements, options and rights.
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters.
        (t)      Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("Default") under its charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or such subsidiary is a party or by which it may be bound (including, without limitation, the Company's 1.02% Yen-denominated notes due 2010 or the related indenture, the Company's Multi-Year $400 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2004, with a consortium of lenders and the Company's Multi-Year $350 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2003, with a consortium of lenders), or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "Existing Instrument"), or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
        The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph only, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
        No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package, and by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act, applicable state securities laws or blue sky laws.
        (u)      Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which if determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
        (v)      No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened or imminent, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Labor Matters.
        (w)      Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary for the conduct of the Company's business as now conducted or as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect (a) no party has been granted an exclusive license to use any portion of such Intellectual Property owned by the Company; (b) there is no infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property owned by or exclusively licensed to the Company; (c) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property; (d) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; and (e) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others.
Intellectual Property Rights.
        (x)      The Company and each subsidiary possess such valid and current licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such license, certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
        (y)      The Company and each of its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above (or elsewhere in the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as are described in the Disclosure Package or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases, except such as are described in the Disclosure Package or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Properties.
        (z)      The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by them in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made appropriate provisions in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance.
        (aa)      The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Debentures and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in each of the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company".
        (bb)      Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are deemed by the Company to be customary for their businesses including, but not limited to, policies covering real and personal property owned or leased by the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries against theft, damage, destruction, acts of vandalism and earthquakes. All such policies are in full force and effect. The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects. Other than in the ordinary course of business or as set forth in the Disclosure Package, and except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause, and (ii) neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any subsidiary will not be able (i) to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (ii) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct its business as now conducted.
Insurance.
        (cc)      No subsidiary or joint venture of the Company (other than any joint venture listed in documents furnished to you by the Company) is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated by the Disclosure Package.
No Restrictions on Dividends.
        (dd)      The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares to facilitate the sale or resale of the Debentures;, that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters, who shall remain solely responsible for such activities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
provided, however
        (ee)      There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required by the Securities Act or the Exchange Act to be described in the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions.
        (ff)      The Company maintains (i) effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
        (gg)      Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
        (hh)      Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such Persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
        "FCPA" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
        (ii)      The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
        (jj)      Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
        (kk)      Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation, order, permit or other requirement relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including without limitation, laws and regulations relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum and petroleum products (collectively, "Materials of Environmental Concern"), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Materials of Environmental Concern (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), which violation includes, but is not limited to, noncompliance with any permits or other governmental authorizations required for the operation of the business of the Company or its subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions thereof, nor has the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any written communication, whether from a governmental authority, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any Environmental Law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; (ii) there is no claim, action or cause of action filed with a court or governmental authority, no investigation with respect to which the Company has received written notice, and no written notice by any person or entity alleging potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental responses costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, attorneys' fees or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or release into the environment, of any Material of Environmental Concern at any location owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, now or in the past (collectively, "Environmental Claims"), pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) to the best of the Company's knowledge, there are no past, present or anticipated future actions, activities, circumstances, conditions, events or incidents, including, without limitation, the release, emission, discharge, presence or disposal of any Material of Environmental Concern, that reasonably could result in a violation of any Environmental Law, require expenditures to be incurred pursuant to Environmental Law, or form the basis of a potential Environmental Claim against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or against any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iv) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any pending or threatened proceeding under Environmental Law to which a governmental authority is a party and which is reasonably likely to result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
        (ll)      None of the following events has occurred or exists: (i) a failure to fulfill the obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to a Plan, determined without regard to any waiver of such obligations or extension of any amortization period; (ii) an audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any other federal or state governmental agency or any foreign regulatory agency with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (iii) any breach of any contractual obligation, or any violation of law or applicable qualification standards, with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the following events has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur: (i) a material increase in the aggregate amount of contributions required to be made to all Plans in the current fiscal year of the Company compared to the amount of such contributions made in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (ii) a material increase in the Company's "accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations" (within the meaning of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 106) compared to the amount of such obligations in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (iii) any event or condition giving rise to a liability under Title IV of ERISA that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (iv) the filing of a claim by one or more employees or former employees of the Company related to their employment that could have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Plan" means a plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA with respect to which any member of the Company may have any liability.
ERISA Compliance.
        (mm)      There is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Brokers.
        (nn)      There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company, except as disclosed in the Prospectus.
No Outstanding Loans or Other Indebtedness.
        (oo)      The Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its directors and officers are, and have been, in material compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act").
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance.
        (pp)      Nothing has come to the attention of the Company that has caused the Company to believe that the statistical and market-related data included in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus is not based on or derived from sources which the Company believes are reliable and accurate in all material respects; it being understood, however, that the Company has not conducted any independent investigation of the accuracy thereof.
Statistical and Market Related Data.
        Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
        ECTION .   
S
2
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Debentures.
        (a)      The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters the Firm Debentures upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective number of Firm Debentures set forth opposite their names on at a purchase price of 99.600% of the aggregate principal amount thereof.
The Firm Debentures.
Schedule A
        (b)      Delivery of the Firm Debentures to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY, 10017(or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representative) at 9:00 a.m. New York time, on December 12, 2005, or such other time and date as may be agreed by the Company and the Representative (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date.
        (c)      In addition, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Underwriters to purchase, severally and not jointly, up to $60 million aggregate principal amount of Optional Debentures from the Company at the same price as the purchase price to be paid by the Underwriters for the Firm Debentures. The option granted hereunder may be exercised at any time and from time to time upon notice by the Representative to the Company, which notice may be given at any time within 13 days from the Closing Date. Such notice shall set forth (i) the amount (which shall be an integral multiple of $1,000 in aggregate principal amount) of Optional Debentures as to which the Underwriters are exercising the option, (ii) the names and denominations in which the Optional Debentures are to be registered and (iii) the time, date and place at which such Debentures will be delivered (which time and date may be simultaneous with, but not earlier than, the Closing Date; and in such case the term "Closing Date" shall refer to the time and date of delivery of certificates for the Firm Debentures and the Optional Debentures). Each time and date of delivery, if subsequent to the Closing Date, is called a "Subsequent Closing Date" and shall be determined by the Representative and shall not be earlier than three nor later than five full business days after delivery of such notice of exercise. If any Optional Debentures are to be purchased, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase the number of Optional Debentures (subject to such adjustments to eliminate fractional Debentures as the Representative may determine) that bears the same proportion to the total principal amount of Optional Debentures to be purchased as the principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth on opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total principal amount of Firm Debentures.
The Optional Debentures; the Subsequent Closing Date.
Schedule A
        (d)      The Representative hereby advises the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Debentures as soon after the Registration Statement becomes effective and this Agreement has been executed as the Representative, in its sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Debentures.
        (e)      Payment for the Debentures shall be made at the Closing Date (and, if applicable, at any Subsequent Closing Date) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Debentures.
        It is understood that the Representative has been authorized, for its own account and the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Firm Debentures and any Optional Debentures the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. BAS, individually and not as the Representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Debentures to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representative by the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
        (f)      The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representative for the accounts of the several Underwriters the Firm Debentures at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The Company shall also deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representative for the accounts of the several Underwriters, the Optional Debentures the Underwriters have agreed to purchase at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. Delivery of the Debentures shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representative shall otherwise instruct. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Debentures.
        (g)      Not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second business day following the date the Debentures are first released by the Underwriters for sale to the public, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered, copies of the Prospectus in such quantities and at such places as the Representative shall request.
Delivery of Prospectus to the Underwriters.
        ECTION .   
S
3
Covenants of the Company.
        The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
        (a)      During such period beginning on the Initial Sale Time and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date, as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, or would be required to be delivered but for Rule 172 (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the Exchange Act), the Company shall furnish to the Representative for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not file or use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representative reasonably objects.
Representative's Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
        (b)      After the date of this Agreement, the Company shall promptly advise the Representative in writing (i) of the receipt of any comments of, or requests for additional or supplemental information from, the Commission, (ii) of the time and date of any filing of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (iii) of the time and date that any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement becomes effective, (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act and (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of any proceedings to remove, suspend or terminate from listing or quotation the Common Stock from any securities exchange upon which it is listed for trading or included or designated for quotation, or of the threatening or initiation of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company shall use reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or suspension of such use. If the Commission shall enter any such stop order at any time, the Company will use its best efforts to promptly obtain the lifting of such order. Additionally, the Company agrees that it shall comply with the provisions of Rules 424, 430A, 430B and 430C, as applicable, under the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly that any filings made by the Company under such Rule 424 were received in a timely manner by the Commission. The Company will also pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1) under the Securities Act prior to the Closing Date.
Securities Act Compliance.
        (c)      During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15 of the Exchange Act in the manner and within the time periods required by the Exchange Act.
Exchange Act Compliance.
        (d)      If, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as then supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if in the opinion of the Representative or counsel for the Underwriters it is otherwise necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to comply with law, the Company agrees to (i) notify the Representative of any such event or condition and (ii) promptly prepare (subject to Section 3(a) and 3(e) hereof), file with the Commission and furnish at its own expense to the Underwriters and to dealers, amendments or supplements to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, necessary in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances when the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or so that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with law.
Amendments and Supplements to the Prospectus and Other Securities Act Matters.
        (e)      The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representative, it will not make any offer relating to the Debentures that would constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representative hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in hereto. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representative is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus". The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
Schedule B
        (f)      The Company agrees to furnish the Representative, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto (including any documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein) as the Representative may reasonably request.
Copies of the Prospectus.
        (g)      The Company will furnish to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto).
Copies of the Registration Statement.
        (h)      The Company shall cooperate with the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Debentures for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representative, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Debentures. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign corporation, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Debentures in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject. The Company will advise the Representative promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Debentures for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to promptly obtain the withdrawal thereof.
Blue Sky Compliance.
        (i)      The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Debentures sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
        (j)   .   The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, free of pre-emptive rights, the full number of Conversion Shares.
Available Conversion Shares
        (k)   .   Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, the Company will not do or authorize any act or thing that would result in an adjustment of the conversion price of the Debentures.
Conversion Price
        (l)      As soon as practicable, the Company will make generally available to its security holders and to the Representative an earnings statement (which need not be audited) covering the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2006 that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 under the Securities Act.
Earnings Statement.
        (m)      During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
NYSE Reporting Obligations.
        (n)      Prior to any issuance of Conversion Shares, the Company will list, subject to notice of issuance, the Conversion Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing.
        (o)      During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the 90 day following the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of BAS (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of BAS), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" or liquidate or decrease a "call equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of, transfer or hedge (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition of), or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act (except for a registration statement on Form S-8) in respect of, any shares of Common Stock, options or warrants to acquire shares of the Common Stock or securities exchangeable or exercisable for or convertible into shares of Common Stock (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Debentures); , , that the Company may issue shares of its Common Stock or options to purchase its Common Stock, or Common Stock upon exercise of options, pursuant to any stock option, stock bonus, stock purchase or other stock plan or arrangement described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or in connection with the acquisition of ANS.
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
th
provided
however
        (p)      If and to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, the Company will furnish to its stockholders as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year an annual report (including a balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries certified by independent public accountants) and, as soon as practicable after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006), to make available to its stockholders consolidated summary financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries for such quarter in reasonable detail.
Future Reports to Stockholders.
        (q)      Unless otherwise publicly available, for the lesser of (i) three years or (ii) so long as the Debentures are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Representative at 9 West 57th Street, New York, NY 10022: Attention: Thomas Morrison: (i) as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, copies of the Annual Report of the Company containing the balance sheet of the Company as of the close of such fiscal year and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the year then ended and the opinion thereon of the Company's independent registered public accountants; (ii) as soon as practicable after the filing thereof, copies of each proxy statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Report on Form 8-K or other report filed by the Company with the Commission, the NASD or any securities exchange; and (iii) as soon as available, copies of any report or communication of the Company mailed generally to holders of its capital stock.
Future Reports to the Representative.
        (r)      The Company shall not invest, or otherwise use the proceeds received by the Company from its sale of the Debentures in such a manner as would require the Company or any of its subsidiaries to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.
Investment Limitation.
        (s)      The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Debentures; , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters, who shall remain solely responsible for such activities.
No Manipulation of Price.
provided, however
        (t)   .   The Company will enforce all agreements between the Company and any of its security holders existing on the date hereof or entered into in connection with this Agreement that prohibit the sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or hypothecation of any of the Company's securities. In addition, the Company will direct the transfer agent to place stop transfer restrictions upon any such securities of the Company that are bound by such "lock-up" agreements for the duration of the periods contemplated in such agreements.
Lock-Up Agreements
        (u)      The Company will cooperate with the Representative and use its best efforts to permit the Debentures to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
DTC.
        ECTION .      The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Debentures (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all fees and expenses of the Trustee under the Indenture , (iii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Debentures to the Underwriters, (iv) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent registered public accountants and other advisors, (v) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, (vi) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Debentures for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, (vii) the fees and expenses associated with listing the Conversion Shares on the New York Stock Exchange, (viii) all transportation and other expenses incurred by the Company in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Debentures and (ix) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement. Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
S
4
Payment of Expenses.
        ECTION .      The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Debentures as provided herein on the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, any Subsequent Closing Date, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, as of any Subsequent Closing Date as though then made, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
S
5
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
        (a)      On the date hereof, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company and ANS, letters dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, the form of which is attached as .
Accountants' Comfort Letters.
Exhibit A
        (b)      For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, any Subsequent Closing Date:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order.
        (c)      For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, any Subsequent Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
        (d)      On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, counsel for the Company, dated such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as , and the favorable opinion of Kevin T. O'Malley, General Counsel of the Company, dated such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
Exhibit B-1
Exhibit B-2
        (e)      On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to, and addressed to, the Representative, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Debentures, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto), the Disclosure Package and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
        (f)      On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the President or any Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated such Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have reviewed the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and this Agreement, to the effect set forth in subsections (b)(ii) and (c)(iii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
        (g)      On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company and ANS, letters dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letters furnished by them pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
        (h)      On or prior to the date hereof, the Company shall have furnished to the Representative an agreement in the form of hereto from each of its directors and executive officers, and such agreement shall be in full force and effect on each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date.
Lock-Up Agreement from Certain Securityholders of the Company.
Exhibit C
        (i)   .   On or before each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Debentures as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
        If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, at any time prior to the applicable Subsequent Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
        ECTION .      If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative pursuant to Section 5 or Section 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Debentures on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representative and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representative and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Debentures, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
S
6
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
        ECTION .      This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
S
7
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
        ECTION .   
S
8
Indemnification.
        (a)      The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, including any information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430A, Rule 430B or, if applicable, Rule 430C under the Securities Act, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and to reimburse each Underwriter, its officers, directors, employees, agents and each such controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by BAS) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter, or its officers, directors, employees and agents or such controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
provided
however
        (b)   .   Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or arises out of or is based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, and only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representative expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the Underwriters have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the table in the first paragraph and in the third (solely with respect to the first three sentences of such paragraph), eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth (solely with respect to the first sentence of such paragraph), and sixteenth (solely with respect to the first and last sentences of such paragraph) paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
        (c)      Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any liability other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by BAS in the case of Section 9), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
        (d)      The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into, and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (i) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (ii) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
        ECTION .      If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions or inaccuracies in the representations and warranties herein which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Debentures as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact or any such inaccurate or alleged inaccurate representation or warranty relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
S
9
Contribution.
        The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 8(c) with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 9; provided, however, that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8(c) for purposes of indemnification.
        The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
        Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Debentures underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in . For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director and each officer of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
        ECTION .      If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Debentures that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Debentures which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the number of Firm Debentures set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representative with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase the Debentures which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Debentures and the aggregate principal amount of Debentures with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representative and the Company for the purchase of such Debentures are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
S
10
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
Schedule A
        As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
        ECTION .      Prior to the Closing Date this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by federal or New York authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States has occurred; or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representative is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Debentures in the manner and on the terms described in the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability on the part of (a) the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Representative and the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof or (b) any Underwriter to the Company.
S
11
Termination of this Agreement.
        ECTION .      The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Debentures and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
S
12
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
        This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
        ECTION .      The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or the Company, the officers or employees of the Company or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Debentures and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Debentures sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
S
13
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
        ECTION .      All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
S
14
Notices.
        If to the Representative:
        If to the Company:
        Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
        ECTION .      This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of (i) the Company, its directors, any person who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and any officer of the Company, (ii) the Underwriters, the officers, directors, employees and agents of the Underwriters, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and (iii) the respective successors and assigns of any of the above, all as and to the extent provided in this Agreement, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement. The term "successors and assigns" shall not include a purchaser of any of the Debentures from any of the several Underwriters merely because of such purchase.
S
15
Successors.
        ECTION .      The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
S
16
Partial Unenforceability.
        ECTION .      THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE.
S
17
Governing Law Provisions.
        ECTION .      This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
S
18
General Provisions.
        Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
        If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
        The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representative as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC      Acting as Representative of the      several Underwriters named in      the attached Schedule A.
SCHEDULE A
SCHEDULE B
Statutory Prospectus dated December 5, 2005
Final Term Sheet dated December 6, 2005
SCHEDULE C
Pacesetter, Inc. (CRM)
St. Jude Medical S.C., Inc. (a/k/a "US Division")
SJM Puerto Rico BV
Getz Japan
Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc.
St. Jude Medical, Daig Division, Inc.
EXHIBIT A
        (i)   we are independent accountants within the meaning of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder;
        (ii)   we have performed an audit of the Company's financial statements for the years indicated in their audit report and have performed a review of the unaudited interim financial information of the Company for the three-, six- and nine-month period ended March 31, 2005 and 204, June 30, 2005 and 2004 and September 30, 2005 and 2004 and as at March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005, in accordance with AU 722.
        (iii)   in our opinion the audited financial statements and financial statement schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and reported on by them comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and the related rules and regulations adopted by the Commission;
        (iv)   on the basis of a reading of the latest unaudited financial statements made available by the Company and its subsidiaries; their limited review, in accordance with standards established under AU 722, of the unaudited interim financial information for the three-, six- and nine-month period ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, June 30, 2005 and 2004 and September 30, 2005 and 2004 and as at March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005; carrying out certain specified procedures (but not an examination in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards) which would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments set forth in such letter; a reading of the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders, directors andaudit committees of the Company and the Subsidiaries; and inquiries of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters of the Company and its subsidiaries as to transactions and events subsequent to December 31, 2004, nothing came to our attention which caused us to believe that:
        (v)   we have performed certain other specified procedures as a result of which we determined that certain information of an accounting, financial or statistical nature (which is limited to accounting, financial or statistical information derived from the general accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries) set forth in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus agrees with the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries, excluding any questions of legal interpretation; and
        (vi)   on the basis of a reading of the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (the "pro forma financial statements"); carrying out certain specified procedures; inquiries of certain officials of the Company and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters; and proving the arithmetic accuracy of the application of the pro forma adjustments to the historical amounts in the pro forma financial statements, nothing came to our attention which caused us to believe that the pro forma financial statements do not comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Rule 11-02 of Regulation S-X or that the pro forma adjustments have not been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of such statements.
EXHIBIT B-1
        References to the Prospectus in this Exhibit B-1 include any supplements thereto at the Closing Date.
        (i)   The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota.
        (ii)   The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement.
        (iii)   The Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus. The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company (including the Common Stock) conform to the descriptions thereof set forth in the Prospectus under the caption "Description of Capital Stock."
        (iv)   The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
        (v)   The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors' or by general equitable principles; the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; and the Indenture conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
        (vi)   The Debentures have been duly authorized by the Company; when the Debentures are executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement on the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be (assuming due authentication of the Debentures by the Trustee), such Debentures will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Debentures will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
        (vii)   The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date of the Underwriting Agreement. To the best knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, if any, has been issued under the Securities Act, no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company and no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act have been instituted or are pending or are contemplated or threatened by the Commission.
        (viii)   The Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Statutory Prospectus and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Statutory Prospectus, as of their respective effective or issue dates (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference therein or in exhibits to or excluded from the Registration Statement, as to which no opinion need be rendered) comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act.
        (ix)   The Conversion Shares initially issuable upon conversion of the Debentures have been duly authorized and reserved and, when issued upon conversion of the Debentures in accordance with the terms of the Debentures, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
        (x)   Each document filed pursuant to the Exchange Act (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered) and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Prospectus complied when so filed as to form in all material respects with the Exchange Act.
        (xi)   The statements in the Prospectus and in the Statutory Prospectus under the captions "Description of Capital Stock" and "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations", insofar as such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, have been reviewed by such counsel and fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
        (xii)   No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby and by the Prospectus, except as required under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the NASD.
        (xiii)   The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification section of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which no opinion need be rendered) (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company; (ii) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company; (iii) will not constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, the Company's 1.02% Yen-denominated notes due 2010 or the related indenture, the Multi-Year $400 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2004, with a consortium of lenders and the Multi-Year $350 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2003, with a consortium of lenders; or (iv) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation, or any judgment, order or decree known to such counsel, applicable to the Company of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties.
        (xiv)   The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Debentures and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
        In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants for the Company and representatives of the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, and any supplements or amendments thereto, and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus including the documents incorporated by reference therein (other than as specified above), and any supplements or amendments thereto, on the basis of the foregoing, nothing has come to their attention which would lead them to believe that (i) either the Registration Statement or any amendments thereto, at the time the Registration Statement or such amendments became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (iii) the documents specified in , consisting of those included in the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that such counsel need express no belief as to the Form T-1 or the financial statements or schedules or other financial or related statistical data derived therefrom, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or any amendments or supplements thereto).
Schedule I
        In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely (A) as to matters involving the application of laws of any jurisdiction other than the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the New York Corporation Law or the federal law of the United States, to the extent they deem proper and specified in such opinion, upon the opinion (which shall be dated the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriters, shall expressly state that the Underwriters may rely on such opinion as if it were addressed to them and shall be furnished to the Representative) of other counsel of good standing whom they believe to be reliable and who are satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters; provided, however, that such counsel shall further state that they believe that they and the Underwriters are justified in relying upon such opinion of other counsel, and (B) as to matters of fact, to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.
EXHIBIT B-2
        References to the Prospectus in this Exhibit B-2 include any supplements thereto at the Closing Date.
        (i)   Each significant subsidiary of the Company (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Statutory Prospectus and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
        (ii)   The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
        (iii)   All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such significant subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or, to the best knowledge of such counsel, any pending or threatened claim.
        (iv)   All of the outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable.
        (v)   No stockholder of the Company or any other person has any preemptive right, right of first refusal or other similar right to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company arising (a) by operation of the charter or by-laws of the Company or the Minnesota Business Corporation Act or (b) to the best knowledge of such counsel, otherwise.
        (vi)   The issuance of the Conversion Shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights arising (a) by operation of the charter or by-laws of the Company or the Minnesota Business Corporation Act or (b) to the best knowledge of such counsel, otherwise.
        (vii)   The statements in the Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 under the caption "Item 1: Legal Proceedings," and in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the caption "Item 3: Legal Proceedings," insofar as such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, have been reviewed by such counsel and fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
        (viii)   To the best knowledge of such counsel, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened which are required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement, other than those disclosed therein.
        (ix)   The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification section of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which no opinion need be rendered) (a) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of any Significant Subsidiary of the Company; (b) will not constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of any of Significant Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to, (A) the Company's 1.02% Yen-denominated notes due 2010 or the related indenture, the Multi-Year $400 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2004, with a consortium of lenders and the Multi-Year $350 million Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2003, with a consortium of lenders or (B) any other Existing Instrument; or (c) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation or any judgment, order or decree known to such counsel, applicable to any Significant Subsidiary of the Company of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over any Significant Subsidiary of the Company or any of its properties, except with respect to clauses (b) and (c) only, such breaches, defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
        (x)   Except as disclosed in the Prospectus, to the best knowledge of such counsel, there are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
        (xi)   To the best knowledge of such counsel, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary (A) is in violation of (i) its charter or by-laws or (ii) any statute, law, rule, judgment, regulation, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of its or their properties or (B) is in Default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any Existing Instrument, except with respect to clauses A(ii) and (B) only, for such violations or Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
        (xii)   The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such license, certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
        In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants for the Company and representatives of the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, and any supplements or amendments thereto, and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus including the documents incorporated by reference therein (other than as specified above), and any supplements or amendments thereto, on the basis of the foregoing, nothing has come to their attention which would lead them to believe that (i) either the Registration Statement or any amendments thereto, at the time the Registration Statement or such amendments became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (iii) the documents specified in , consisting of those included in the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that such counsel need express no belief as to the financial statements or schedules or other financial or related statistical data derived therefrom, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or any amendments or supplements thereto).
Schedule I
        In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely (A) as to matters involving the application of laws of any jurisdiction other than the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the New York Corporation Law or the federal law of the United States, to the extent they deem proper and specified in such opinion, upon the opinion (which shall be dated the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriters, shall expressly state that the Underwriters may rely on such opinion as if it were addressed to them and shall be furnished to the Representative) of other counsel of good standing whom they believe to be reliable and who are satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters; provided, however, that such counsel shall further state that they believe that they and the Underwriters are justified in relying upon such opinion of other counsel, and (B) as to matters of fact, to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.
EXHIBIT C
December    , 2005
Banc of America Securities LLC           As Representative of the Several Underwriters c/o Banc of America Securities LLC 9 West 57th Street New York, NY 10019 Re:     St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") Ladies and Gentlemen:
        The undersigned is an owner of record or beneficially of certain shares of common stock, $0.10 par value, of the Company ("Common Stock") or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock. The Company proposes to carry out a public offering of Convertible Senior Debentures due 2035, which will be convertible into cash and, in certain circumstances, Common Stock (the "Offering") for which you will act as the representative of the underwriters. The undersigned recognizes that the Offering will be of benefit to the undersigned and will benefit the Company. The undersigned acknowledges that you and the other underwriters are relying on the representations and agreements of the undersigned contained in this letter in carrying out the Offering and in entering into underwriting arrangements with the Company with respect to the Offering.
        In consideration of the foregoing, the undersigned hereby agrees that the undersigned will not (and will cause any spouse or immediate family member of the spouse or the undersigned living in the undersigned's household not to), without the prior written consent of Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS") (which consent may be withheld in its sole discretion), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell (including without limitation any short sale), pledge, transfer, establish an open "put equivalent position" or liquidate or decrease a "call equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise dispose of, transfer or hedge (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition of), or file (or participate in the filing of) a registration statement (other than a registration statement on Form S-8) with the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect of, any shares of Common Stock, options or warrants to acquire shares of Common Stock, or securities exchangeable or exercisable for or convertible into shares of Common Stock currently or hereafter owned either of record or beneficially (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) by the undersigned (or such spouse or family member), or publicly announce an intention to do any of the foregoing, for a period commencing on the date hereof and continuing through the close of trading on January 31, 2006 (the "Lock-Up Period"). The foregoing sentence shall not apply to: (a) bona fide gifts to charities not in excess of an aggregate of 500 shares of Common Stock for all such gifts by the undersigned, (b) other bona fide gifts, provided that the recipient thereof agrees in writing with you to be bound by the terms of this agreement, (c) dispositions to any trust for the direct or indirect benefit of the undersigned and/or immediate family members of the undersigned, provided that such trust agrees in writing with you to be bound by the terms of this agreement, (d) sales of Common Stock (whether in connection with the exercise of stock options or otherwise) pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 selling plan entered into by the undersigned prior to the date hereof, or (e) the exercise of stock options granted to the undersigned pursuant to the Company's stock plans prior to the date hereof, provided that such exercise does not involve the sale of any shares of Common Stock in the open market other than pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 selling plan entered into by the undersigned prior to the date hereof. In addition, the undersigned agrees that, without the prior written consent of BAS, it will not, during the Lock-Up Period, make any demand for or exercise any right with respect to, the registration of any shares of Common Stock or any security convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock. With respect to the Offering only, the undersigned waives any registration rights relating to registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of any Common Stock owned either of record or beneficially by the undersigned, including any rights to receive notice of the Offering.
        The undersigned also agrees and consents to the entry of stop transfer instructions with the Company's transfer agent and registrar against the transfer of shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock held by the undersigned except in compliance with the foregoing restrictions.
        This agreement is irrevocable and will be binding on the undersigned and the respective successors, heirs, personal representative, and assigns of the undersigned. This agreement shall be terminated and the undersigned shall be released from its obligations hereunder if: (a) the Company notifies you in writing that it does not intend to proceed with the Offering, (b) the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Offering is withdrawn, or (c) for any reason, the Underwriting Agreement between you and the Company relating to the Offering is terminated prior to the Closing Date (as defined in said Underwriting Agreement).

\
EXHIBIT 4.1
___________ N.A. means not applicable.
___________ This Cross-Reference Table is not part of the Indenture.
1
        INDENTURE dated as of December 12, 2005 between ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation (""), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association ("").
Company
Trustee
        Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035:
        Section 1.01   .
Definitions
        "" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
        "" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
        "" means the agent of the Company appointed to obtain quotations for the Securities as set forth under the definition of Trading Price, which such agent shall be appointed no later than the first Contingent Interest Period and shall at no time be an Affiliate of the Company. The Company may, from time to time, change the Bid Solicitation Agent.
Bid Solicitation Agent
        "" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
        "" means a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Board Resolution
        "" means, with respect to any Security, any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York.
Business Day
        "" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
Capital Stock
        "" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Certificated Securities
        "" means the occurrence at such time after the original issuance of the Securities when any of the following has occurred:
Change of Control
        (1)    a "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule 13D or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of shares of Common Stock representing more than 50% of the Voting Stock; or
        (2)    the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors does not consist of Continuing Directors; or
        (3)    a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange, or any conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's properties and assets to another Person, other than:
        The term "person" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
        "" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
close of business
        "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
        "" means the common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company existing on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which such Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed, including, subject to Section 10.05 below, in the event of a merger, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company that is otherwise permitted hereunder in which the Company is not the surviving Person, the common stock of such surviving corporation.
Common Stock
        "" means the party named as the "Company" in the preamble of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Company
        "" means a notice to Holders delivered pursuant to Section 3.07 or Section 3.08.
Company Notice
        "" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any Officer.
Company Request
Company Order
        "" means such interest payable as described in Article 11.
Contingent Interest
        "" means (i) the period commencing on, and including, December 15, 2006 and ending on, and including, June 14, 2007, and (ii) each six-month period from June 15 to December 14 or from December 15 to June 14 thereafter.
Contingent Interest Period
        "" means a director who either was a member of the Board of Directors on the date the Securities are first issued hereunder or who becomes a member of the Board of Directors subsequent to that date and whose appointment, election or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders is duly approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors on the Board of Directors at the time of such approval, either by specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board of Directors in which such individual is named as nominee for director.
Continuing Director
        "" means (A) with respect to the Conversion Settlement Distribution (other than any Additional Shares which may be issuable pursuant to Section 10.01(c)), the third Business Day immediately following the Cash Settlement Period, and (B) with respect to any Additional Shares which may be issuable, the later of (i) the fifth Business Day following the effective date of
Conversion Settlement Date
any Change of Control transaction and (2) the third Business Day immediately following the Cash Settlement Period.
        "" as of any date means $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate as of such date.
Conversion Price
        "" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 60 Livingston Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55107, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
        "" of the Common Stock on any day means the average of the Last Reported Sale Price per share of the Common Stock for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the "Ex-Dividend Date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, subject to adjustment by the Board of Directors if another transaction requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.04 occurs during such ten day period.
Current Market Price
        "" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time, would be, an Event of Default.
Default
        "" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
        "" means the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock, regular way on the relevant exchange or in the relevant market for the Common Stock, does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant dividend or distribution from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer.
Ex-Dividend Date
        "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
        "", or "" means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's-length transaction.
Fair Market Value
fair market value
        "" means either a Change of Control or a Termination of Trading.
Fundamental Change
        "" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that are registered in the register of Securities in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof.
Global Securities
        "" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
Securityholder
        "" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
        "" means interest payable on each Security pursuant to Section 1 of the Securities.
Interest
        "" means June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2006.
Interest Payment Date
        "" means June 1 and December 1 of each year.
Interest Record Date
        "" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
        "" means, with respect to any security on any date, the closing sale price (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and asked prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average asked prices) on that date as reported by the NYSE, if the Common Stock is not reported by the NYSE, in composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or on NASDAQ if the Common Stock is quoted thereon. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange and not reported by NASDAQ on the relevant date, the "Last Reported Sale Price" shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the "Last Reported Sale Price" shall be the average of the midpoint of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three independent nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
Last Reported Sale Price
        "" means The NASDAQ Stock Market.
NASDAQ
        "" means The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
        "" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
        "" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Company by any Officer, and delivered to the Trustee. An Officer's Certificate
Officer's Certificate
given pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company but need not contain the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05.
        "" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
        "" means the prospectus of the Company dated December 6, 2005 relating to the offering of the Securities.
Prospectus
        "" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
Record Date
        "" means the date specified in a notice of redemption on which the Securities may be redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
Redemption Date
        "" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer of the Trustee within the Institutional Trust Services department (or any successor department) of the Trustee located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee who has direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for the purposes of Sections 7.01(c)(ii) and 7.05 shall also mean any other officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject matter.
Responsible Officer
        "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
        "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
        "" means any of the Company's 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Security
        "" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Securityholder
Holder
        "" means any subsidiary of the Company that is a significant subsidiary at any determination date pursuant to Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w)(1) or (2).
Significant Subsidiary
        "", when used with respect to any Security, means December 15, 2035.
Stated Maturity
        "" means the price per share of Common Stock paid in connection with a Change of Control transaction pursuant to which Additional Shares are issuable as set forth in Section 10.01(c) hereof, which shall be equal to (i) if Holders of Common Stock receive only cash in such Change of Control transaction, the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock and (ii) in all other cases, the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days prior to, but not including, the effective date of such Change of Control transaction.
Stock Price
        "" means any person of which at least a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time directly or indirectly be owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
        "" means the amount of ordinary interest income on a Security that must be accrued as original issue discount for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Treasury regulations section 1.1275-4.
Tax Original Issue Discount
        "" means the occurrence, at any time, of the Common Stock of the Company (or other common stock into which the Securities are then convertible) being neither listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange nor quoted on NASDAQ.
Termination of Trading
        "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, , , that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
        "" means a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the NYSE or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the NYSE, then a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, then on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded or quoted.
Trading Day
        "" of the Securities on any date of determination means the average of the secondary market bid quotations per $1,000 principal amount of the Securities obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent for $5,000,000 principal amount of the Securities at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers the Company selects, if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, that one bid shall be used. If the Bid Solicitation Agent cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5,000,000
Trading Price
provided that
principal amount of the Securities from a nationally recognized securities dealer, or in the Company's reasonable judgment, the bid quotations are not indicative of the secondary market value of $1,000 principal amount of the Securities, then
        (i)    for purposes of any determination of whether Contingent Interest is payable or the amount thereof, the Trading Price of the Securities on any date of determination shall equal the product of (i) the applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities as of the date of determination and (ii) the average Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days ending on such determination date; and
        (ii)    for purposes of determining whether the condition to conversion of the Securities set forth in Section 10.01(a)(2) has been satisfied, the Trading Price of the Securities will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate on such date.
        "" means the U.S. federal income tax regulations, including temporary regulations, promulgated under the Code, as those regulations may be amended from time to time. Any reference herein to a specific section of the Treasury regulations shall include any corresponding provisions of succeeding, similar, substitute, proposed or final Treasury regulations.
Treasury regulations
        "" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the preamble of this Indenture unless and until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
        "" means the Underwriting Agreement dated December 6, 2005 between the Company, on the one hand, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the several underwriters, on the other relating to the Securities.
Underwriting Agreement
        "" of a Person means Capital Stock of such Person of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time Capital Stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
        Section 1.02   
Other Definitions.
         Section 1.03   . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
        "" means the SEC.
Commission
        "" means the Securities.
indenture securities
        "" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
        "" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
        "" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
        "" on the indenture securities means the Company.
obligor
        All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rules have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
        Section 1.04    . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
         Section 1.05   . (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company, as described in Section 12.02. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
Acts of Holders
Act
        (b)    The fact and date of the execution by any person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
        (c)    The principal amount and serial number of any Security and the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register for the Securities.
        (d)    Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
        (e)    If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction,
notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
provided
         Section 2.01   . (a) The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A and B, which are a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities may, but need not, have the corporate seal of the Company or a facsimile thereof affixed thereto or imprinted thereon.
Form and Dating
        (b)    Securities shall be issued initially in the form of a Global Security, which shall be deposited with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary (as defined below) and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("") or the nominee thereof (DTC, or any successor thereto, and any such nominee being hereinafter referred to as the ""), duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary as hereinafter provided.
Global Securities.
DTC
Depositary
        (c)    . Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, repurchases and conversions.
Global Securities in General
        Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof, and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary.
        (d)    . This Section 2.01(d) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
Book-Entry Provisions
        The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(d), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or held by the Trustee pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.
        (e)     Securities not issued as interests in the Global Securities shall be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.
Certificated Securities.
         Section 2.02.   . The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by one Officer. The signature of such Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Execution and Authentication
        Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of an individual who was, at the time of the execution of the Securities, an Officer shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of authentication of such Securities.
        No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
        The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $660 million upon one or more Company Orders without any further action by the Company (other than as contemplated in Section 12.04Section 12.03 and Section 12.05 hereof). The aggregate principal amount of the Securities due at the Stated Maturity thereof outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the foregoing sentence.
        The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and any integral multiple of $1,000.
         Section 2.03.   . The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05.
        The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar (in each case, if such Registrar, agent or co-registrar is a Person other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
        The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
         Section 2.04.   . Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or shares of Common Stock sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money and shares of Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any Default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such Default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and shares of Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and shares of Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and shares of Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or shares of Common Stock.
Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust
         Section 2.05.   . The Trustee shall preserve the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on June 1 and December 1 a listing of Securityholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders.
Securityholder Lists
         Section 2.06.   . (a) Subject to Section 2.12 hereof, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such transfer or exchange.
Transfer and Exchange
        At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
        The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of Securities to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed.
        (b)    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall, except as set forth in Section 2.12, be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole or in part, to the Depositary, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
        (c)    Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities.
        (d)    Except as otherwise set forth in this Indenture, any such action taken by a Holder shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Securities issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security or any Security issued in exchange or substitution therefor.
        (e)    Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities.
        (f)    No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
         Section 2.07.   . If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Replacement Securities
        In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be redeemed or purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
        Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
        Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
        The provisions of this Section 2.07 are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
         Section 2.08.   . Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those redeemed or purchased pursuant to Section 2.07, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; , , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other Act hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Article 6 and Article 9).
Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action
provided
however
        If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
        If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Redemption Date, or on the Business Day immediately following a Repurchase Date or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then from and after such Redemption Date, Repurchase Date, Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on such Securities shall cease to accrue; , that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made.
provided
        If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the date of conversion, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, shall cease to accrue and the rights of the Holders therein shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Conversion Settlement Distribution).
         Section 2.09.   . Pending the preparation of Certificated Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the Certificated Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions
Temporary Securities
and other variations as the Officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
        If temporary Securities are issued, the Company shall cause Certificated Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of Certificated Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for Certificated Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.03, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of Certificated Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as Certificated Securities.
         Section 2.10.   . All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 3, conversion, redemption or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation other than in connection with registrations of transfer or exchange or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure.
Cancellation
         Section 2.11.   . Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of the principal amount of the Security or any portion thereof, or the payment of any Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price in respect thereof, and Interest or Contingent Interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
         Section 2.12.   . (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(i) below, (B) transfers of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated
Global Securities
Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(ii) below and Section 2.12(e) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06, Section 2.12(a)(iii) and Section 2.12(a)(iv) below.
the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; , however, that the Certificated Securities surrendered for transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
provided
        (b)    [Reserved].
        (c)    [Reserved].
        (d)    [Reserved].
        (e)    The provisions of clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
        (f)    The Trustee and the Registrar shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
        The Trustee shall have no responsibility for the actions or omissions of the Depositary, or the accuracy of the books and records of the Depositary.
         Section 2.13.   . The Company may issue the Securities with one or more "CUSIP", "ISIN" or other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" , "ISIN" or other similar numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption or purchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
         Section 2.14.   . The Company and each Holder, by acquiring a beneficial interest in a Security, agree (i) to treat the Security as indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments (the ""), (ii) that each Holder shall be bound by the
Contingent Debt Tax Treatment
contingent debt regulations
Company's application of the contingent debt regulations to the Security, including the Company's determination of the "comparable yield" and "projected payment schedule" within the meaning of the contingent debt regulations, (iii) to treat the cash and the fair market value of any Common Stock received upon the conversion of the Security as a contingent payment for purposes of the contingent debt regulations, (iv) to accrue interest with respect to the outstanding Security as Tax Original Issue Discount according to the "noncontingent bond method" set forth in the contingent debt regulations, using the comparable yield of 6.18% compounded semi-annually and (v) that the Company and each Holder will not take any position on any U.S. federal income tax return that is inconsistent with (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) unless required by applicable law. A Holder may obtain the issue price, the amount of Tax Original Issue Discount, issue date, yield to maturity, comparable yield and projected payment schedule for the Security, as determined by the Company pursuant to the contingent debt regulations, by submitting a written request to the Company at the following address: St. Jude Medical, Inc., One Lillehei Plaza, St. Paul, Minnesota 55117, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
        (b)    Each Security shall bear a legend relating to U.S. federal income tax matters in the form set forth in Exhibits A and B.
         Section 2.15.   . At the request of the Trustee, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of Tax Original Issue Discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such Tax Original Issue Discount as may then be required under the Code or the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.
Calculation of Tax Original Issue Discount
         Section 3.01.   . Prior to December 15, 2006, the Securities shall not be redeemable at the Company's option. On or after December 15, 2006, the Company, at its option, may redeem the Securities for U.S. legal tender ("") at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price (the "") equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on the Securities redeemed up to, but not including, the Redemption Date, that if the Redemption Date is on a date that is after an Interest Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Redemption Price shall be 100% of the principal amount of the Securities redeemed but shall not include accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any. Instead, the Company shall pay such Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on the Interest Payment Date to the Holder of record on the corresponding Interest Record Date. If the Company elects to
Company's Right to Redeem; Notices to Trustee
cash
Redemption Price
provided,
redeem Securities pursuant to this Section 3.01, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of such election together with the Redemption Date, the Conversion Rate, the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and the Redemption Price. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not redeem the Securities if it has failed to pay any Interest, including Contingent Interest, if any, on the Securities when due and such failure is continuing.
        The Company shall give the notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 3.01 by a Company Order, at least 45 days but not more than 75 days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
         Section 3.02.   . If less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, unless the procedures of the Depositary provide otherwise, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed by lot, on a pro rata basis or by another method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Securities are then traded or quoted). The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal amount of Securities that have denominations larger than $1,000.
Selection of Securities to Be Redeemed
        Securities and portions of Securities that the Trustee selects shall be in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly (but in any case within seven days of the Company Order referred to in Section 3.01) of the Securities or portions of the Securities selected to be redeemed and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the method it has chosen for the selection of the Security.
        Following a notice of redemption, Securities and portions of Securities are convertible, pursuant to Section 10.01(a)(2), by the Holder until the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date. If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities that have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed may be treated by the Trustee as outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
         Section 3.03.   . At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption (substantially in the form of Exhibit C) by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
        The notice shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state (along with any other information the Company wishes to include):
        At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense, that the Company makes such request at least seven Business Days (or such shorter period as may be satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to the date by which such notice of redemption must be given to Holders in accordance with this Section 3.03.
provided
         Section 3.04.   . Once notice of redemption is given, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice except for Securities that are converted in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice and from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price) such Securities shall cease to bear Interest
Effect of Notice of Redemption
and Contingent Interest, if any, and the rights of the Holders therein shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Redemption Price).
         Section 3.05. . Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time), on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities to be redeemed on that date other than Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation or have been converted. The Paying Agent shall as promptly as practicable return to the Company any money not required for that purpose because of conversion of Securities pursuant to Article 10. If such money is then held by the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either in trust and is not required for such purpose it shall be discharged from such trust.
Deposit of Redemption Price
         Section 3.06.   . Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, without charge, authenticate and deliver to the Holder a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
         Section 3.07.   . On each of December 15, 2006, December 15, 2008, December 15, 2010, December 15, 2015, December 15, 2020, December 15, 2025 and December 15, 2030 (each, a ""), each Holder shall have the option to require the Company to repurchase Securities for which that Holder has properly delivered and not withdrawn a written Repurchase Notice (as defined below) at a repurchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities, plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on those Securities, to, but not including, such Repurchase Date (the ""); that if the Repurchase Date is on a date that is after an Interest Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Repurchase Price shall be 100% of the principal amount of the Securities repurchased but shall not include accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any. Instead, the Company shall pay such accrued and unpaid Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on the Interest Payment Date, to the Holder of Record on the corresponding Interest Record Date. Not later than 20 Business Days prior to any Repurchase Date, the Company shall mail a Company Notice (substantially in the form of Exhibit D) by first class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners if required by applicable law). The Company Notice shall include a form of Repurchase Notice to be completed by a Holder and shall state:
Repurchase of Securities by the Company at Option of the Holder
Repurchase Date
Repurchase Price
provided,
        At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give such Company Notice to each Holder in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , , that, in all cases, the text of such Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
provided
however
    (b)        A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.07(a) upon delivery to the Paying Agent of a written notice of repurchase (a "") during the period beginning at any time from the opening of business on
Repurchase Notice
the date that is 20 Business Days prior to the relevant Repurchase Date until the close of business on such Repurchase Date, stating:
        The delivery of such Security (together with all necessary endorsements) to the Paying Agent at any time after delivery of the Repurchase Notice at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Repurchase Price therefor; , , that such Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.07 only if the Security (together with all necessary endorsements) so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Repurchase Notice.
provided
however
        The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.07, a portion of a Security, if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security.
        Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.07 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Business Day immediately following the Repurchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security (together with all necessary endorsements or notifications of book-entry transfer).
        Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.07 shall have the right to withdraw such Repurchase Notice by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.09 at any time prior to the close of business on the Repurchase Date.
        The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
         Section 3.08.   . If a Fundamental Change occurs, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase for cash all of such Holder's Securities not previously called for redemption by the Company, or any portion thereof that is equal to or an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities, plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on those Securities (the "") to, but not including, the date that is 30 days following the date of the notice of a Fundamental Change mailed by the Company pursuant to Section 3.08(b) (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.08(c); that if the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date is on a date that is after an Interest Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be 100% of the principal amount of the Securities repurchased but shall not include accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any. Instead, the Company shall pay such Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on the Interest Payment Date to the Holder of Record on the corresponding Interest Record Date.
Repurchase of Securities at Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change
Fundamental Change Repurchase Price
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
provided,
        (b)     No later than 15 days after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall mail a Company Notice of the Fundamental Change (substantially in the form of Exhibit E) by first class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners if required by applicable law). The Company Notice shall include a form of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall state:
        At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give such Company Notice to each Holder in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , , that, in all cases, the text of such Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
provided
however
        (c)    A Holder may exercise its rights specified in this Section 3.08 upon delivery of a written notice of repurchase (a ") to the Paying Agent at any time on or prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, stating:
"Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
        The delivery of such Security (together with all necessary endorsements) to the Paying Agent with the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price therefor; , that such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.08 only if the Security (together with all necessary endorsements) so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
provided, however
        The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.08, a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security.
        Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.08 shall be consummated by the delivery of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price promptly following the later of the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or the time of delivery of such Security (together with all necessary endorsements or notifications of book-entry transfer).
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, Holders shall not have the right to require us to repurchase the Securities upon a Change of Control described in clause (3) of the definition thereof if more than 90% of the consideration in the transaction or transactions constituting such Change of Control consists of shares of common stock traded or to be traded immediately following such Change of Control on a U.S. national securities exchange or NASDAQ, and, as a result of such transaction or transactions, the Securities become convertible into such common stock (and any rights attached thereto).
        Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.08(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.09 at any time prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
        The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
         Section 3.09.   . (a) Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice specified in Section 3.07 or Section 3.08, as applicable, the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, was given shall (unless such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, is withdrawn as specified in Section 3.09(b)) thereafter be entitled solely to receive the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, with respect to such Security whether or not the Security is, in fact, properly delivered. Such Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds and/or securities by the Paying Agent, promptly following the later of (x) the Business Day following the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 3.07 or Section 3.08, as applicable, have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.07 or Section 3.08, as applicable. Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to and to the extent permitted by Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice unless such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in Section 3.09(b).
Effect of Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
        (b)     A Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, at any time (i) in the case of the Repurchase Notice, if received by the Paying Agent prior to the close of business on the Repurchase Date or (ii) in the case of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, if received by the Paying Agent prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, specifying:
        Section 3.10..   Prior to 10:00 a.m. (local time in The City of New York) on the Business Day following the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of cash in immediately available funds sufficient to pay the aggregate Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be.
Deposit of Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
        Section 3.11.   Any Certificated Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased.
Securities Purchased in Part.
        Section 3.12.   When complying with the provisions of Section 3.07 or Section 3.08 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall (i) comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) and any other applicable tender offer rules under the Exchange Act, (ii) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with all Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Sections 3.07 and 3.08.
Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Securities.
        Section 3.13.   The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed as provided in Section 12 of the Securities, together with interest, if any, thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)), held by them for the payment of the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be.
Repayment to the Company.
        Section 4.01.   The Company shall make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Any amounts of cash in immediately available funds or shares of Common Stock to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, by the Company. The principal amount of, and Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on the Securities, and the Redemption Price, Repurchase Price and the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (which, in the case of a Repurchase Price or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, shall be on the Business Day immediately following the applicable Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due.
Payment of Securities.
        Section 4.02.   The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company shall also comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely conclusively on Officer's Certificates).
SEC and Other Reports.
        Section 4.03.   The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005) an Officer's Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signer thereof, the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which such Officer may have knowledge and otherwise comply with Section 314(a)(4) of the TIA.
Compliance Certificate.
        The Company shall, so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days of any executive officer of the Company becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such
Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
        Section 4.04.   The Company shall execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts.
        Section 4.05.   The Company shall maintain in the United States of America an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, purchase, redemption or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, as listed in Section 12.02, shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
        The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes.
provided
however
        Section 5.01.   The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other Person or convey, transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless:
When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets.
        For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company.
        The successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 9.06, the Company, the Trustee and the successor Person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor Person and such discharge and release of the Company.
        Section 6.01.   So long as any Securities are outstanding, each of the following shall be an "":
Events of Default.
Event of Default
        (a)    following the exercise by the Holder of the right to convert a Security in accordance with Article 10 hereof, the Company fails to comply with its obligations to deliver the cash or shares of Common Stock, if any, required to be delivered as part of the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution on the applicable Conversion Settlement Date and such failure continues for a period of 5 days or more;
        (b)    the Company defaults in its obligation to provide timely notice of a Fundamental Change to the Trustee and each Holder as required under Section 3.08(b);
        (c)    the Company defaults in its obligation to redeem any Security, or any portion thereof, called for redemption by the Company pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.01 hereof;
        (d)    the Company defaults in the payment of the principal amount of any Security when due at maturity, redemption, upon repurchase or otherwise (including, without limitation, upon the exercise by a Holder of its right to require the Company to repurchase such Securities pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.07 or Section 3.08 hereof);
        (e)    the Company defaults in the payment of any Interest or Contingent Interest when due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days;
        (f)    the Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or warranty or agreement in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clause (a) through clause (e) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default;
        (g)    the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premise of (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law (any "")or (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of any of their property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order described in clause (i) or (ii) above is unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; and
Bankruptcy Law
        (h)    (i) the commencement by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or (ii) the consent by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, or (iii) the filing by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or
relief under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or (iv) the consent by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or the taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of any of their property, or (v) the making by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due.
        The foregoing shall constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
        For the avoidance of doubt, clause (f) above shall not constitute an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding notify the Company and the Trustee, of such default and the Company does not cure such default (and such default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (f) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "."
Notice of Default
        Section 6.02.    If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or Section 6.01(h) with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing (the Event of Default not having been cured or waived), the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such accelerated amount shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or Section 6.01(h) with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, and thereby waive the Events of Default giving rise to such acceleration, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, that have become due solely as a result of acceleration. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
Acceleration.
        Section 6.03.   If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture.
Other Remedies.
        The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
        Section 6.04.   The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder), may waive any existing or past Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of Section 6.01 or (2) an Event of Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Securityholder affected. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(B) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
Waiver of Past Defaults.
        Section 6.05.   The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Securityholders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability; , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction or this Indenture. Prior to taking any action under this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
Control by Majority.
provided
        Section 6.06.   A Securityholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities, except in case of a Default due to the non-payment of the principal amount of the Securities, any accrued and unpaid Interest or any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, unless:
Limitation on Suits.
        A Securityholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Securityholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Securityholder.
        Section 6.07.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities or any Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment or the right to convert on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment.
        Section 6.08.   If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01 clauses (a) through (e) (other than (b)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to the Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
Collection Suit by Trustee.
        Section 6.09.   In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
        Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
        The Company agrees not to object to the Trustee participating as a member of any official committee of creditors of the Company as it deems necessary or advisable.
        Section 6.10.   Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article 6, and, after an Event of Default, any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture, shall be paid out in the following order:
Priorities.
        The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Securityholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
        Section 6.11.   In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. This Section 6.11 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
Undertaking for Costs.
        Section 6.12.   The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on Securities, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws.
        Section 7.01.   
Duties of Trustee.
        (a)    If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
        (b)    Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
        (c)    The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
        Subparagraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
        (d)    Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to this Section 7.01.
        (e)    The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
        (f)    Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company (provided that any interest earned on money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder shall be the property of the Company).
        (g)    No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
        Section 7.02.   Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
Rights of Trustee.
        Section 7.03.   The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10 and Section 7.11.
Individual Rights of Trustee.
        Section 7.04.   The Trustee makes no representation as to, and shall have no responsibility for, the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application by the Company of the Securities or of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for the correctness of any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in any offering document for the Securities, the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
Trustee's Disclaimer.
        Section 7.05.   If a Default or Event of Default occurs and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Securityholder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs or, if later, within 15 days after it is known to the Trustee, unless such Default or Event of Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except in the case of a Default or Event of Default described in clauses (d) and (e) of Section 6.01, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Securityholders. The preceding sentence shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice of such Default or Event of Default, which notice specifically references this Indenture and the Securities.
Notice of Defaults.
        Section 7.06.   Within 60 days after each December 31 beginning with May 15, 2006, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder a brief report dated as of such December 31 that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if required by such Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b). Any reports required by this Section 8.06 shall be transmitted by mail to Securityholders pursuant to TIA Section 313(c).
Reports by Trustee to Holders.
        A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Securityholders shall be filed with the SEC and each securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities are
listed. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee promptly whenever the Securities become listed on any securities exchange and of any delisting thereof.
        Section 7.07.   The Company agrees:
Compensation and Indemnity.
        To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the principal amount of, or the Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, Interest or Contingent Interest, if any, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
        The Company's payment, reimbursement and indemnity obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture for any reason. In addition to and without prejudice to its rights hereunder, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or Section 6.01(h), the expenses, including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel and the compensation for services payable pursuant to Section 7.07(a), are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws.
        For the purposes of this Section 7.07, the "Trustee" shall include any predecessor Trustee; provided, however, that except as may be otherwise agreed among the parties, the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
        Section 7.08.   The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company; , however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 7.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee.
provided
        If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
        A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Securityholders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
        If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Company for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
        If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Securityholder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
        So long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, if the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (i) a Board Resolution appointing a successor Trustee, effective as of a date at least 30 days
after delivery of such Resolution to the Trustee, and (ii) an instrument of acceptance of such appointment, effective as of such date, by such successor Trustee in accordance with this Indenture, the Trustee shall be deemed to have resigned as contemplated in this Section 7.08, the successor Trustee shall be deemed to have been accepted as contemplated in this Indenture, all as of such date, and all other provisions of this Indenture shall be applicable to such resignation, appointment and acceptance.
        Section 7.09.   If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person without any further act shall be the successor Trustee, subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Successor Trustee by Merger.
        Section 7.10.   The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Sections 310(a)(1) and 310(b). The Trustee (or any parent holding company) shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of TIA Section 310(b).
Eligibility; Disqualification.
        Section 7.11.   The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
        Section 8.01.   When (i) the Company causes to be delivered to the Trustee all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced or repaid pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable and the Company deposits with the Trustee cash sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company.
Discharge of Liability on Securities.
        Section 8.02.   The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities
Repayment to the Company.
held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable abandoned property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall have no further liability to the Securityholders with respect to such money or securities for that period commencing after the return thereof.
        Section 8.03.   The Trustee shall hold in trust all money and other consideration deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.01 and shall apply such deposited money and other consideration through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of amounts due on the Securities. Money and other consideration so held in trust is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 7.07.
Application of Trust Money.
        Section 9.01.   The Company and the Trustee may modify or amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder to:
Without Consent of Holders.
        Section 9.02.   Except as provided below in this Section 9.02 and in Section 9.01, this Indenture or the Securities may be amended, modified or supplemented, and noncompliance in any particular instance with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities may be waived, in each case with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority of the principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding.
With Consent of Holders.
        Without the written consent or the affirmative vote of each Holder of Securities affected thereby, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not:
        It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
        After an amendment under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment.
        Section 9.03.    Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Compliance With Trust Indenture Act.
        Section 9.04.    Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, waiver or action becomes effective. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder.
Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions.
        Section 9.05.    Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 9 may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Company as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
Notice of Amendments, Notation on or Exchange of Securities.
        Section 9.06.    The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures.
        Section 9.07.    Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
        Section 10.01.     Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Article 10, a Holder of a Security shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding Stated Maturity into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, at the Conversion Rate (the "") in effect on the date of conversion only as follows:
Conversion Privilege.
Conversion Obligation
        The Company or, at its option, the Conversion Agent on behalf of the Company, shall determine on a daily basis during the time periods specified in Section 10.01(a)(1) or, following a request by a Holder of Securities in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 10.01(a)(2), whether the Securities shall be convertible as a result of the occurrence of an event specified in such Sections and, if the Securities shall be so convertible, the Company or the Conversion Agent, as applicable, shall promptly deliver to the Trustee and Conversion Agent or the Company, as applicable written notice thereof. Whenever the Securities shall become convertible pursuant to this Section 10.01 (as determined in accordance with this Section 10.01), the Company or, at the Company's request, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall promptly notify the Holders of the event triggering such convertibility in the manner provided in Section 12.02, and the Company shall also promptly disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News and publish such information on the Company's Website or through another public medium the Company may use at that time. Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice.
        (b)    In the event that:
        (c)    If and only to the extent a Holder timely elects to convert Securities during the period specified in Section 10.01(b)(2) above on or prior to December 15, 2006, and 10% or more of the consideration for the Common Stock in such Change of Control transaction consists of consideration other than common stock traded or scheduled to be traded immediately following such transaction on a U.S. national securities exchange or NASDAQ, the Conversion Rate shall be increased by an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below; that if the Stock Price paid in connection with such transaction is greater than $120.00 or less than $51.61 (subject in each case to adjustment as described below), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate. Notwithstanding this Section 10.01(c), if the Company elects to adjust the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.01(d), the provisions of Section 10.01(d)shall apply in lieu of the provisions of this Section 10.01(c). The Company shall notify Holders, at least 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction causing any increase of the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.01(c), whether the Company elects to increase the Conversion Rate as described above or to adjust the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.01(d).
Additional Shares
provided
        The number of Additional Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate as described in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be determined by reference to the table attached as Schedule I hereto, based on the effective date of such Change of Control transaction and the Stock Price paid in connection with such transaction; that if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or such effective date is between two effective dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year. The "" with respect to a Change of Control transaction means the date that a Change of Control becomes effective.
provided
effective date
        With respect to any Securities tendered for conversion to which Additional Shares apply, any shares of Common Stock to be delivered upon conversion of such Securities pursuant to Section 10.02 shall be delivered to Holders who elect to convert their Securities on the later of (i) the fifth Business Day following the effective date and (2) the third Business Day following the final day of the Cash Settlement Period.
        The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table in Schedule I hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Securities is adjusted pursuant to Section 10.04. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.04.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities exceed 19.3760 per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.04.
        (d)    Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01(c), in the case of a Change of Control that would lead to the issuance of Additional Shares as set forth in clause (c) above that is also a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Company may, in lieu of increasing the Conversion Rate by Additional Shares as described in Section 10.01(c), elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related Conversion Obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control, Holders of Securities shall be entitled to convert their Securities (subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to conversion set forth in Section 10.01(a)) into Public Acquirer Common Stock. The Conversion Rate following the effective date of such transaction will be a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock equal to the product of the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change of Control times the average of the quotients obtained, for each Trading Day in the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control (the ""), of:
Valuation Period
        The "" of the Common Stock means, for each Trading Day in the Valuation Period, the value of the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in connection with such Public Acquirer Change of Control, as follows:
Acquisition Value
        "" means an event constituting a corporate transaction that would otherwise obligate the Company to increase the Conversion Rate as described in Section 10.01(c) and the acquirer, the Person formed by or surviving the merger or consolidation or any entity that is direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of such Person's or acquirer's Voting Stock has a class of common stock traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on NASDAQ or which shall be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such Change of Control (the "); that if there is more than one of such entity, the relevant entity shall be such entity with the most direct beneficial ownership to such acquirer's or Person's capital stock.
Public Acquirer Change of Control
"Public Acquirer Common Stock
provided,
        Upon a Public Acquirer Change of Control, if the Company so elects, Holders may convert their Securities (subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to conversion set forth in Section 10.01(a)) at the adjusted Conversion Rate described above but shall not be entitled to the increased Conversion Rate described in Section 10.01(c). The Company shall notify Holders of its election in its notice to Holders pursuant to Section 10.01(b)(2) above. Holders may convert their Securities upon a Public Acquirer Change of Control during the period specified in Section 10.01(b)(2). In addition, Holders can also, subject to certain conditions, require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Securities as described in Section 3.08.
        After any adjustment of the Conversion Rate in connection with a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Conversion Rate shall be subject to further similar adjustments in the event that any of the events described in Section 10.04 occur thereafter.
        The Company may only make such election if such public acquirer is a corporation organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District Columbia and if the Company and such public acquirer execute a supplemental indenture whereby the public acquirer agrees to comply with the obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture applicable to such public acquirer or any securities thereof that may be issuable upon conversion of the Securities.
        Section 10.02.    Subject to Section 10.01 and the Company's rights under Section 10.03, each Security shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent into a combination of cash and fully paid and nonassessable shares (calculated to the nearest 1/100th of a share) of Common Stock, if any at a rate (the "
Conversion Procedure; Conversion Rate; Fractional Shares.
Conversion
") equal to, initially, 15.5009 shares of Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in certain instances as provided in Section 10.04 hereof, but shall not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid Interest or Contingent Interest, if any. Upon conversion, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to any accrued and unpaid Interest, including Contingent Interest, if any. Instead, such amount shall be deemed paid by the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution delivered upon conversion of any Security. In addition, no payment or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock with a record date prior to the Conversion Date. The Company shall not issue any fraction of a share of Common Stock in connection with any conversion of Securities, but instead shall, subject to Section 10.03 hereof, make a cash payment (calculated to the nearest cent) equal to such fraction multiplied by the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day prior to the Conversion Date.
Rate
        (b)    Before any Holder of a Security shall be entitled to convert the same into a combination of cash and Common Stock, if any, such Holder shall (1) in the case of Global Securities, comply with the procedures of the Depositary in effect at that time for converting a beneficial interest in a Global Security, and in the case of Certificated Securities, surrender such Securities, duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, at the office of the Conversion Agent, and (2) give written notice to the Company in the form on the reverse of such Certificated Security (the "") at said office or place that such Holder elects to convert the same and shall state in writing therein the principal amount of Securities to be converted and the name or names (with addresses) in which such Holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock included in the Conversion Settlement Distribution, if any, to be registered.
Conversion Notice
        Before any such conversion, a Holder also shall pay all taxes or duties, if any, as provided in Section 10.06 and any amount payable pursuant to Section 10.02(g).
        If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock, if any, that shall be deliverable upon conversion as part of the Conversion Settlement Distribution shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted thereby) so surrendered.
        (c)    A Security shall be deemed to have been converted as of the close of business on the date (the ") that the Holder has complied with Section 10.02(b).
"Conversion Date
        (d)    The Company shall, on the Conversion Settlement Date, (i) pay the cash component (including cash in lieu of any fraction of a share to which such Holder would otherwise be entitled) of the Conversion Obligation determined pursuant to Section 10.03 to the Holder of a Security surrendered for conversion, or
such Holder's nominee or nominees, and (ii) issue, or cause to be issued, and deliver to the Conversion Agent or to such Holder, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock, if any, to which such Holder shall be entitled as part of such Conversion Obligation. The Company shall not be required to deliver certificates for shares of Common Stock while the stock transfer books for such stock or the security register are duly closed for any purpose, but certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered as soon as practicable after the opening of such books or security register, and the Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock as part of the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock, as of the close of business on the applicable Conversion Settlement Date.
        (e)    In case any Security shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or upon the written order of the Holder of the Security so surrendered, without charge to such Holder (subject to the provisions of Section 10.06 hereof), a new Security or Securities in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Securities.
        (f)    By delivering the combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, together with a cash payment in lieu of any fractional shares to the Conversion Agent or to the Holder or such Holder's nominee or nominees, the Company shall have satisfied in full its Conversion Obligation with respect to such Security, and upon such delivery, accrued and unpaid Interest, if any, and Contingent Interest, if any, with respect to such Security shall be deemed to be paid in full rather than canceled, extinguished or forfeited, and such amounts shall no longer accrue.
        (g)    If a Securityholder delivers a Conversion Notice after the Interest Record Date for a payment of Interest (including Contingent Interest, if any) but prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, such Securityholder must pay to the Company, at the time such Securityholder surrenders Securities for conversion, an amount equal to the Interest (including Contingent Interest, if any), that has accrued and shall be paid on the related Interest Payment Date. The preceding sentence shall not apply if (1) the Company has specified a Redemption Date that is after an Interest Record Date but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date during such period referred to in clause (1) of this paragraph or (3) to the extent of overdue Interest, if any overdue Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to the Securities converted.
        Section 10.03.    Upon conversion of Securities, the Company shall deliver to Holders surrendering Securities for conversion, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, a settlement amount
Payment Upon Conversion.
(the "") on the Conversion Settlement Date consisting of:
Conversion Settlement Distribution
        The Company shall not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Securities. Instead, the Company shall pay the cash value of such fractional shares based upon the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Conversion Date.
        The "" means the product of (1) the Conversion Rate in effect (plus any Additional Shares as described under Section 10.01(c)) and (2) the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the Trading Days during the Cash Settlement Period (such average, the "").
Conversion Value
Twenty Day Average Closing Stock Price
        The "" with respect to any Securities converted means the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the second Trading Day after the Conversion Date for those Securities.
Cash Settlement Period
        (b)    If a Holder tenders Securities for conversion and the Conversion Value is being determined at a time when the Securities are convertible into Exchange Property, the Conversion Value of each Security shall be determined based on the kind and amount of such Exchange Property and the value thereof during the Cash Settlement Period. Settlement of Securities tendered for conversion after the effective date of any transaction giving rise to Exchange Property shall be as set forth above. For the purposes of this Section, the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock shall be deemed to equal the sum of (A) 100% of the value of any Exchange Property consisting of cash received per share of Common Stock, (B) the Last Reported Sale Price of any Exchange Property received per share of Common Stock consisting of securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or approved for quotation on NASDAQ and (3) the Fair Market Value of any other Exchange Property received per share, as determined by three independent nationally recognized investment banks selected by the Company for this purpose. Settlement (in cash and/or shares) will occur on the third Business Day following the final day of such Cash Settlement Period.
        Section 10.04.   The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company in accordance with this Section 10.04:
Adjustment of Conversion Rate.
        (a)    In case the Company shall hereafter pay a dividend or make a distribution to all or substantially all holders of the outstanding Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the date following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution by a fraction,
such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 10.04 is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
        (b)   In case the Company shall issue rights, warrants or options (other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment or share repurchase plans) to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 60 days after the date of such distribution) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price on the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants by a fraction,
        Such adjustment shall be successively made whenever any such rights or warrants are issued, and shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants had not been fixed. In determining whether any rights, options or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than such Current Market Price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights or warrants and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors.
        (c)    In case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be subdivided into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective shall be proportionately increased, and conversely, in case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be combined into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes effective.
        (d)    In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Company or evidences of its indebtedness or assets (including securities, but excluding any rights, options or warrants referred to in Section 10.04(b) and excluding any dividend or distribution (x) paid exclusively in cash or (y) referred to in Section 10.04(a)) (any of the foregoing hereinafter in this Section 10.04(d) called the ""), then, in each such case, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall be equal to the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect on the Record Date with respect to such distribution by a fraction,
Distributed Assets
such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following such Record Date; , , that in the event (1) the then Fair Market Value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Record Date or (2) the Current Market Price of Common Stock on the Record Date exceeds the then Fair Market Value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock by less than $1.00, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion the amount of Distributed Assets such Holder would have received had such Holder converted each Security on the Record Date for such distribution. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If the Board of Directors determines the Fair Market Value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 10.04(d) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the Current Market Price of the Common Stock.
provided
however
        Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock entitling the Holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (""): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 10.04 (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 10.04 shall be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under this Section 10.04. If any such right or warrant, including any such existing rights or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and record date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights
Trigger Event
(and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 10.04 was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
        No adjustment of the Conversion Rate shall be made pursuant to this Section 10.04(d) in respect of rights or warrants distributed or deemed distributed on any Trigger Event to the extent that such rights or warrants are actually distributed, or reserved by the Company for distribution to Holders of Securities upon conversion by such Holders of Securities to Common Stock.
        For purposes of this Section 10.04(d) and Section 10.04(a) and (b), any dividend or distribution to which this Section 10.04(d) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of capital stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 10.04(d) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.04(a) and (b) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except (A) the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted as "the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution", "the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants" and "the date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of Section 10.04(a) and (b), and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of Section 10.04(a).
        If any Distributed Assets requiring any adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.04(d) consists of the Capital Stock, or similar equity interests in, a Subsidiary or
other business unit of the Company which are or in connection with such distribution will be listed or quoted for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or NASDAQ, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the close of business on the Record Date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive the distribution shall instead be increased by multiplying the Conversion Rate then in effect by a fraction, (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of such distributed security for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date on NASDAQ or such other national or regional exchange or market on which such securities are then listed or quoted plus (2) the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the same Trading Day period and (B) the denominator of which is such average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date on NASDAQ or such other national or regional exchange or market on which the securities are then listed or quoted.
        (e)    In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock cash (an "") (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), then, in such case, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Record Date for such Extraordinary Cash Dividend by a fraction,
Extraordinary Cash Dividend
such adjustment to be effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following such Record Date; , that in the event the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Record Date, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder converted each Security on such Record Date. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
provided, however
        (f)    In case a tender or exchange offer made by the Company or any Subsidiary for all or any portion of the Common Stock shall expire and such tender or exchange offer (as amended upon the expiration thereof) shall require the
payment to stockholders of consideration per share of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) that as of the last time (the "") tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended) exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Expiration Time by a fraction,
Expiration Time
such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Company is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
        (g)    In case of a tender or exchange offer made by a Person other than the Company or any Subsidiary for an amount that increases the offeror's ownership of Common Stock to more than 25% of the Common Stock outstanding and shall involve the payment by such Person of consideration per share of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive, and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) that as of the last time (the "") tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it shall have been amended) exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the first Trading Day after the Offer Expiration Time, and in which, as of the Offer Expiration Time the Board of Directors is not recommending rejection of the offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate
Offer Expiration Time
determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Offer Expiration Time by a fraction
such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Offer Expiration Time. In the event that such Person is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but such Person is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the adjustment described in this Section 10.04(g) shall not be made if, as of the Offer Expiration Time, the offering documents with respect to such offer disclose a plan or intention to cause the Company to engage in any transaction described in Section 10.05.
        (h)    The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by this Section 10.04, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any U.S. federal income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any stock distribution; , however, that such increase in the Conversion Rate shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities (after taking into account U.S. federal income tax and other consequences of such increase).
provided
        To the extent permitted by applicable law and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed, the Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Securities a notice of the increase at least 15 days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it shall be in effect.
        (i)    All calculations under this Article 10 shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth of a share, as the case may be, with one half-cent and 0.005 of a share, respectively, being rounded upward. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment need be made for:
        (j)    Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent (if other than the Trustee) an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officer's Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to the Holder of each Security at his last address appearing on the Security register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
        (k)    In any case in which this Section 10.04 provides that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after (1) a record date or Record Date for an event, (2) the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive a dividend or distribution pursuant to Section 10.04(a), (3) a date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights or warrants pursuant to Section 10.04(b), (4) the effective date of any subdivision or combination of Common Stock, (5) the Expiration Time for any tender or exchange offer pursuant to Section 10.04(f), or (6) the Offer Expiration Time for a tender offer or exchange offer pursuant to Section 10.04(g) (each a ""), the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of the relevant Adjustment Event (as hereinafter defined) (x) issuing to the Holder of any Security converted after such Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the additional shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion before giving effect to such adjustment and (y) paying to such Holder any amount in cash in lieu of any fraction pursuant to Section 10.04(a). For purposes of this Section 10.04(k), the term "" shall mean:
Determination Date
Adjustment Event
        (l)    For purposes of this Section 10.04, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.
        SECTION 10.05.   (a) If any of the following events occur, namely (i) any reclassification or change of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination to which Section 10.04(c) applies or a change in par value) as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, (ii) any consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or combination of the Company with another Person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, or (iii) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company to any other Person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, then the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture) providing for the conversion and settlement of the Securities as set forth in this Indenture. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, the Exchange Property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a corporation other than the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, in such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other corporation and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Securities as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
        (b)    The Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities converted following the effective date of any such transaction, shall be calculated (as provided in clause (c) below) based on the Exchange Property. In the event holders of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the Company shall make adequate provision whereby the Holders of the Securities shall have a reasonable opportunity to determine the form of consideration, consistent with the election rights and restrictions applicable to holders of Common Stock, into which all of the Securities, treated as a single class, shall be convertible from and after the effective date of such transaction. Such determination shall be made pursuant to Section 1.05 and shall be subject to any limitations to which all of the holders of the Common Stock are subject, such as pro-rata reductions applicable to any portion of the consideration payable in such event and shall be conducted in such a manner as to be completed by the date which is the earliest of (a) the deadline for elections to be made by holders of the Common Stock in connection with such transaction, and (b) two Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such event. The Company shall provide notice of the opportunity to determine the form of such consideration, as well as notice of the determination made by Holders of the Securities by issuing a press release and providing a copy of such notice to the Trustee. The Company shall not become a party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with the preceding.
        (c)    The Conversion Obligation in respect of any Securities converted following the effective date of any such transaction shall be computed in the same manner as set forth in Section 10.03(a) except that (1) the Cash Settlement Period shall be the 10 Trading Day period beginning on the second Trading Day after the Conversion Date (or, in the event the Conversion Date is on the Business Day prior to the Stated Maturity, the 10 Trading Day period beginning on the second Trading Day after the Stated Maturity), and (2) if the Securities become convertible into Exchange Property, the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock shall be deemed to equal the sum of (A) 100% of the value of any Exchange Property consisting of cash received per share of Common Stock, (B) the Last Reported Sale Price of any Exchange Property received per share of Common Stock consisting of securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or approved for quotation on NASDAQ and (3) the Fair Market Value of any other Exchange Property received per share, as determined by three independent nationally recognized investment banks selected by the Company for this purpose. Settlement (in cash and/or shares) shall occur on the third Business Day following the final day of such Cash Settlement Period, that any amount of the Conversion Settlement Distribution to be delivered in shares of Common Stock shall be paid in Exchange Property rather than shares of Common Stock. If the Exchange Property includes more than one kind of property, the amount of Exchange Property of each kind to be delivered shall be in the proportion that the value of the Exchange Property (as calculated pursuant to Section 10.03) of such kind bears to the value of all such Exchange Property. If the foregoing calculations would require the Company to deliver a fractional share or unit of Exchange Property to a Holder of Securities being converted, the Company shall deliver cash in lieu of such fractional share or unit based on the value of the Exchange Property.
provided,
        (d)     The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder of Securities, at its address appearing on the Security register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
        (e)     The above provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, statutory share exchanges, combinations, sales and conveyances.
        If this Section 10.05 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 10.04 shall not apply.
        Section 10.06.   . The issue of stock certificates on conversions of Securities shall be made without charge to the converting Holder for any tax in respect of the issue thereof, except for applicable withholding, if any. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any tax or duty which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of stock in any name other than that of the Holder of any Securities converted, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any such stock certificate unless and until the Person or Persons requesting the issue thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
Taxes on Shares Issued
        Section 10.07.   . (a)The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock for the conversion of the Securities from time to time as such Securities are presented for conversion.
Reservation of Shares, Shares to Be Fully Paid; Compliance with Governmental Requirements
        (b)    Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment increasing the Conversion Rate to an amount that would cause the Conversion Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, the Company shall take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
        (c)     (i) The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued upon conversion of Securities shall upon issue be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof.
        Section 10.08.   . The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Securities to determine the Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Security; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Security for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article 10. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 10.05 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of stock or securities or property (including cash) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Securities after any event referred to in such Section 10.05 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon the Officer's Certificate (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
Responsibility of Trustee
        Section 10.09.   . In case:
Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions
        (a)     the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.04; or
        (b)     the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of all of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.04(b); or
        (c)     of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation, merger or statutory share exchange to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
        (d)     of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company;
the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each Holder of Securities at his address appearing on the register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, as promptly as possible but in any event at least ten (10) days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution of rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the Holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
        Section 10.10.   To the extent that the Company has a rights plan in effect upon conversion of the Securities into Common Stock, a Holder who converts securities shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock, the rights under the rights plan, unless prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all Holders of Common Stock, shares of the Company's Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in Section 10.04(d) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights. In lieu of any such adjustment, the Company may amend such applicable shareholder rights plan to provide that upon conversion of the Securities the Holders shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the rights which would have attached to such Common Stock if the rights had not become separated from the Common Stock under such applicable shareholder rights agreement.
Shareholder Rights Plan.
        Section 10.11.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to convert its Security in accordance with this Article 10 and to bring an action for the enforcement of any such right to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Convert.
        Section 11.01.   (a) The Company shall pay Contingent Interest with respect to the Securities for any Contingent Interest Period if the average Trading Price of Securities for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately before the last Trading Day before the relevant Contingent Interest Period equals or exceeds 120% of the principal amount of such Securities.
Contingent Interest.
        (b)     The amount of Contingent Interest payable per $1,000 principal amount of Securities in respect of any Contingent Interest Period shall equal 0.25% per annum calculated on the average Trading Price of $1,000 principal amount of Securities during the relevant five Trading Day period used to determine whether Contingent Interest must be paid.
        (c)     The Company shall be responsible for calculating the amounts of Contingent Interest, if any, accrued on the Securities. The Company shall make any such calculations using the Trading Price provided by the Bid Solicitation Agent. The Bid Solicitation Agent shall be entitled in its sole discretion to consult with the Company and to request the assistance of the Company in connection with the Bid Solicitation Agent's duties pursuant to this Article 11, and the Company agrees, if requested by the Bid Solicitation Agent, to cooperate with, and provide assistance to, the Trustee in carrying out its duties under this Article 11.
        Section 11.02.   Payments of Contingent Interest shall be made in the same manner, at the same time, and subject to the same restrictions, including those restrictions in respect of accrued and unpaid Interest on any Securities that are submitted for conversion, as payments of Interest.
Payment of Contingent Interest.
        Section 11.03.   By the first Business Day of a Contingent Interest Period for which Contingent Interest shall be payable, the Company shall disseminate a press release containing this information or publish the information on its Website or through such other public medium as it may use at that time.
Contingent Interest Notification.
        Section 12.01.   If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
        Section 12.02.   Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission to the following facsimile numbers:
Notices.
        if to the Company:
        With a copy to:
        if to the Trustee:
        The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
        Any notice or communication given to a Securityholder shall be delivered to the Securityholder, in accordance with the procedures of the Registrar or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Securityholder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
        Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee; , , that no notice to the Trustee shall be deemed to be duly given unless and until the Trustee actually receives same at the address given above.
provided
however
        If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
        Section 12.03.   Securityholders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Communication by Holders with Other Holders.
        Section 12.04.   Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
        (1)     an Officer's Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signer, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
        (2)     an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
        Section 12.05.   Each Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.
        (1)     a statement that each person making such Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition;
        (2)     a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based;
        (3)     a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
        (4)     a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
        Section 12.06.   In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause.
        Section 12.07.   The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders. The Registrar, the Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar.
        Section 12.08.   A "" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a legal holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a legal holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Securities, no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the intervening period.
legal holidays.
legal holiday
Section 12.09.   THIS INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
        Section 12.10.   A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others.
        Section 12.11.   All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
Successors.
        Section 12.12.   The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
EXHIBIT A
        UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
        TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
        FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE"), THIS SECURITY IS BEING ISSUED WITH TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT. THE ISSUE PRICE OF THIS SECURITY IS $1000 PER $1000 OF PRINCIPAL AMOUNT, AND THE ISSUE DATE OF THIS SECURITY IS DECEMBER 12, 2005. IN ADDITION, THIS SECURITY IS SUBJECT TO UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTINGENT PAYMENT DEBT INSTRUMENTS. FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE CODE, THE COMPARABLE YIELD OF THIS SECURITY IS 6.18%, COMPOUNDED SEMI-ANNUALLY (WHICH WILL BE TREATED AS THE YIELD TO MATURITY FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES).
        THE COMPANY AGREES TO PROVIDE PROMPTLY TO THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, UPON WRITTEN REQUEST, THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE, YIELD TO MATURITY, COMPARABLE YIELD AND PROJECTED PAYMENT SCHEDULE. ANY SUCH WRITTEN REQUEST SHOULD BE SENT TO THE COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., ONE LILLEHEI PLAZA, ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA 55117, ATTENTION: CORPORATE SECRETARY.
CUSIP: 790849AB9
ISSUE DATE: December 12, 2005   Principal Amount: $660,000,000 No.
        ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal amount of Six Hundred Sixty Million Dollars, on December 15, 2035.
        Interest Rate: 2.800% per year.
        Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2006.
        Interest Record Date: June 1 and December 1 of each year.
        Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side of this Security, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
        This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035 (the "") of St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (including any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, the ""), issued under an Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2005 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). The terms of the Security include those stated in the Indenture, those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (""), and those set forth in this Security. This Security is subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Security and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture shall control. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated.
Securities
Company
Indenture
Trustee
TIA
1.     .
Interest
        The Securities shall bear interest on the principal amount thereof at a rate of 2.800% per year. The Company shall pay Contingent Interest, if any, as set forth in the Indenture and in Section 3 hereof.
        Interest shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date to Holders at the close of business on the preceding Interest Record Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30 day months.
        The Company shall pay Interest to the Securityholder of record on the Interest Record Date even if the Company elects to redeem, or Securityholders elect to require the Company to repurchase, the Securities on a date that is after an Interest Record Date but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date. In that instance, the Company shall pay accrued and unpaid Interest on the Securities being redeemed to, but not including, the Redemption Date, the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, to the Securityholder of record on the Interest Record Date.
        If the principal amount of any Security, or any accrued and unpaid Interest or Contingent Interest, if any, are not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Indenture, upon the date set for payment of the Redemption Price pursuant to Section 5 hereof, upon the date set for payment of the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price pursuant to Section 6 hereof, upon the Stated Maturity of the Securities or upon the Interest Payment Dates), then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear cash interest at the rate of 2.800% per annum, compounded semi-annually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable in cash on demand but if not so demanded shall be paid quarterly to the Holders on the last day of each quarter.
2.     .
Method of Payment
        Except as provided below, the Company shall pay Interest, including Contingent Interest, if any, on (i) Global Securities, to DTC in immediately available funds, (ii) any Certificated Security having an aggregate principal amount of $2,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holder of such Security and (iii) any Certificated Security having an aggregate principal amount of more than $2,000,000, by wire transfer in immediately available funds if requested by the Holder of any such Security as least five business days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date.
        At Stated Maturity, the Company shall pay Interest on Certificated Securities at the Company's office or agency maintained for that purpose, which initially shall be the office or agency of the Trustee located at 60 Livingston Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55107.
        Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall make payments in cash in respect of Redemption Prices, Repurchase Prices, Fundamental Change Repurchase Prices and at Stated Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money.
3.     
Contingent Interest
        The Company shall pay Contingent Interest under the circumstances and in the amounts described in Article 11 of the Indenture. Such Contingent Interest, if any, shall be payable in the same manner, at the same time, and subject to the same restrictions, including those restrictions in respect of accrued and unpaid Interest on any Securities that are submitted for conversion, as payments of Interest.
4.     .
Indenture
        The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $660,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
5.     .
Redemption at the Option of the Company
        No sinking fund is provided for the Securities. The Securities are redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time on or after December 15, 2006 upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail for a redemption price (the "") equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on those Securities up to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
Redemption Price
        In no event shall any Security be redeemable before December 15, 2006.
6.     .
Purchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder
        Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase, at the option of the Holder, all or any portion of the Securities held by such Holder on December 15, 2006, December 15, 2008, December 15, 2010, December 15, 2015, December 15, 2020, December 15, 2025 and December 15, 2030 in integral multiples of $1,000 at a Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on those Securities up to, but not including, the Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Paying Agent a Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to such Repurchase Date until the close of business on the Repurchase Date, and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture.
        At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase the Securities held by such Holder after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change for a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on those Securities up to, but not including, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Paying Agent a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture at any time on or prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture.
        Holders have the right to withdraw any Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
        If cash sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) on and following such Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon surrender of such Security.
7.     .
Notice of Redemption
        Notice of redemption pursuant to Section 5 of this Security shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Securities or portions thereof on and following such Redemption Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Redemption Price upon surrender of such Security. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 principal amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 of principal amount.
8.     .
Conversion
        Subject to the occurrence of certain events and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, the conditions to conversion of this Security set forth in Section 10.01 thereof), a Holder is entitled, at such Holder's option, to convert the Holder's Security (or any portion of the principal amount thereof that is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000), into cash or a combination of cash and fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of conversion.
        The Company shall notify Holders of any event triggering the right to convert the Securities as specified in the Indenture.
        A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Security, may be converted only if such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
        The initial Conversion Rate is 15.5009 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid Interest or accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any. Upon conversion, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any. Instead, such amount shall be deemed paid by the cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, delivered upon conversion of any Security. In addition, no payment or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock, except as set forth in the Indenture.
        In addition, following certain corporate transactions as set forth in Section 10.01(b) of the Indenture that occur prior to December 15, 2006 and that also constitute a Change of Control, a Holder who elects to convert its Securities in connection with such corporate transaction shall be entitled to receive Additional Shares of Common Stock upon conversion. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, in the case of a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Company may, in lieu of increasing the Conversion Rate by Additional Shares, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and Conversion Obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control, Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to convert their Securities into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock, as determined pursuant to Section 10.01(d) of the Indenture.
        To surrender a Security for conversion, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the Conversion Notice attached hereto (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, (4) if required by Section 10.02(g) of the Indenture, pay Interest and Contingent Interest and (5) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required.
        No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any Security. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued upon conversion of such Security, the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture.
        If the Company engages in any reclassification of the Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value) or is party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets, and as a result of any such event the Holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive Exchange Property for their Common Stock, upon conversion of the Securities after the effective date of such event, the Conversion Obligation and the Conversion Settlement Distribution shall be based on the applicable Conversion Rate and the Exchange Property, in each case in accordance with the Indenture.
9.     .
Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
        Initially, the Trustee shall act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar.
10.     .
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
        The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased).
11.     .
Persons Deemed Owners
        The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes.
12.     .
Unclaimed Money or Securities
        The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable abandoned property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
13.     .
Amendment; Waiver
        Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities and (ii) certain Events of Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities (i) to add guarantees with respect to the Securities, (ii) to remove any guarantee added to the Securities pursuant to clause (i), unless such guarantee is required pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of the Indenture, (iii) to conform as necessary, the Indenture and this Security to the "Description of the Debentures" as set forth in the Prospectus, (iv) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Securities, (v) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company in the Indenture, (vi) to provide for conversion rights of Holders of Securities if any reclassification or change of the Company's Common Stock or any consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets occurs, (vii) to provide for the assumption by a successor Person (and the public acquirer, if applicable) of the Company's obligations to the Holders of Securities in the case of a merger, consolidation, conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition as provided under the Indenture, (viii) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of Certificated Securities; , , that uncertificated Securities are issued in registered form for purposes of Section 163(f) of the Code, or in a manner such that uncertificated Securities are described in Section 163(f)(2)(B) of the Code, (ix) to change the Conversion Rate in accordance with the Indenture; , however, that any increase in the Conversion Rate other than pursuant to Article 10 shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities (after taking into account U.S. federal income tax and other consequences of such increase), (x) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, (xi) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision in the Indenture which may be inconsistent with any other provision in the Indenture or which is otherwise defective; , , that any such change or modification does not, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company (as evidenced by a Board Resolution) and the Trustee, adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect, (xii) to add or modify any other provisions of the Indenture with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture which the Company and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company (as evidenced by a Board Resolution) and the Trustee, shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect, (xiii) to establish the form of Securities if issued in definitive form and (xiv) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of the appointment under the Indenture of a successor Trustee.
provided
however
provided
provided
however
14.     .
Defaults and Remedies
        If any Event of Default with respect to Securities shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Contingent Interest, if any, on all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
15.     .
Trustee Dealings with the Company
        Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
16.     .
Calculations in Respect of Securities
        The Company or its agents shall be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Securities including, but not limited to, determination of the market prices for the Securities and of the Common Stock and the amount of Contingent Interest, if any, accrued on the Securities. Any calculations made in good faith and without manifest error shall be final and binding on Holders of the Securities. The Company or its agents shall be required to deliver to the Trustee a schedule of its calculations and the Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification.
17.     .
U.S. Federal Income Tax Treatment
        For purposes of Sections 1272, 1273 and 1275 of the Code, this Security is being issued with Tax Original Issue Discount and the issue date of this Security is December 12, 2005. In addition, this Security is subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments. For purposes of Sections 1272, 1273 and 1275 of the Code, the comparable yield of this Security is 6.18%, compounded semi-annually (which shall be treated as the yield to maturity for U.S. federal income tax purposes).
        The Company and each Holder, by acquiring a beneficial interest in a Security, agree (i) to treat the Security as indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments (the "contingent debt regulations"), (ii) that each Holder shall be bound by the Company's application of the contingent debt regulations to the Security, including the Company's determination of the "comparable yield" and "projected payment schedule" within the meaning of the contingent debt regulations, (iii) to treat the cash and the fair market value of any Common Stock received upon the conversion of the Security as a contingent payment for purposes of the contingent debt regulations, (iv) to accrue interest with respect to the outstanding Security as Tax Original Issue Discount according to the "noncontingent bond method" set forth in the contingent debt regulations, using the comparable yield of 6.18% compounded semi-annually and (v) that the Company and each Holder will not take any position on any U.S. federal income tax return that is inconsistent with (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) unless required by applicable law. The Company agrees to provide promptly to the Holder of this Security, upon written request, the issue price, amount of Tax Original Issue Discount, issue date, yield to maturity, comparable yield and projected payment schedule. Any such written request should be sent to the Company at the following address: St. Jude Medical, Inc., One Lillehei Plaza, St. Paul, Minnesota 55117, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
18.     .
No Recourse Against Others
        A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
19.     .
Authentication
        This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
20.     .
Abbreviations
        Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
21.     .
Governing Law
        THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THEREOF.
22.     .
Copy of Indenture
        The Company shall furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to:
Date: __________ Your Signature: ______________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
Signature Guaranteed
________________________________
Participant in a Recognized Signature
Guarantee Medallion Program
By:__________________________________         Authorized Signatory
EXHIBIT B
        FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE"), THIS SECURITY IS BEING ISSUED WITH TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT. THE ISSUE PRICE OF THIS SECURITY IS $1000 PER $1000 OF PRINCIPAL AMOUNT, AND THE ISSUE DATE OF THIS SECURITY IS DECEMBER 12, 2005. IN ADDITION, THIS SECURITY IS SUBJECT TO UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTINGENT PAYMENT DEBT INSTRUMENTS. FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE CODE, THE COMPARABLE YIELD OF THIS SECURITY IS 6.18%, COMPOUNDED SEMI-ANNUALLY (WHICH WILL BE TREATED AS THE YIELD TO MATURITY FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES).
        THE COMPANY AGREES TO PROVIDE PROMPTLY TO THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, UPON WRITTEN REQUEST, THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE, YIELD TO MATURITY, COMPARABLE YIELD AND PROJECTED PAYMENT SCHEDULE. ANY SUCH WRITTEN REQUEST SHOULD BE SENT TO THE COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., ONE LILLEHEI PLAZA, ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA 55117, ATTENTION: CORPORATE SECRETARY.
CUSIP: 790849AB9 ISSUE DATE: December 12, 2005                 Principal Amount: $ [      ] No.
        ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation, promises to pay to __________ or registered assigns, the principal amount of _____________________, on December 15, 2035.
        Interest Rate: 2.800% per year.
        Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2006.
        Interest Record Date: December 1 and June 1 of each year.
        Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side of this Security, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
_________________,
U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
By__________________________________             Authorized Signatory
Dated: ____________
EXHIBIT C
[DATE]
To the Holders of the 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035 issued by St. Jude Medical, Inc.:
        St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Issuer") by this written notice hereby exercises, pursuant to Section 3.01 of that certain Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of December 12, 2005, between the Issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, its right to redeem $[_________] of its 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035 (the "Securities"). All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
1.     Redemption Date: [_______ _, ____]
2.     Redemption Price: $[______]
3.     Conversion Rate: Each $1,000 principal amount of the Securities is convertible at your option into cash and common stock, if any, at a rate of [insert number of shares] shares of the Issuer's common stock, $0.10 par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to adjustment, during the period described below.
4.     Paying Agent and Conversion Agent: [NAME] [ADDRESS]
5.     The Securities called for redemption may be converted at your option at any time from the date of this Notice of Redemption until 5:00 p.m. on the Business Day immediately prior to the Redemption Date set forth above.
6.     The Securities called for redemption and not converted at your election prior to 5:00 p.m. on the Business Day immediately prior to Redemption Date set forth above shall be redeemed on the Redemption Date.
7.     If you elect to convert your Securities, you must satisfy the requirements for conversion set forth in your Securities.
8.     Your Securities called for redemption must be surrendered by you (by effecting book entry transfer of the Securities or delivering Certificated Securities, together with necessary endorsements, as the case may be) to [Name of Paying Agent] at [insert address] in order for you to collect the Redemption Price.
9.     [The Securities bearing the following Certificate Number(s) in the principal amount set forth below opposite such Certificate Number(s) are being redeemed:
        Certificate Number(s)                  Principal Amount] 
10.     Unless the Issuer defaults in making the payment of the Redemption Price owed to you, Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on your Securities called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date.
11.     Cusip Number: [             ]
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
EXHIBIT D
[DATE]
To the Beneficial Owners of the 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035 (the "Securities") issued by St. Jude Medical, Inc.:
        St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Issuer") by this written notice hereby notifies you, pursuant to Section 3.07 of that certain Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of December 12, 2005, between the Issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, that you may request the Issuer to repurchase your Securities by delivery of a Repurchase Notice. Included herewith is the form of Repurchase Notice to be completed by you if you wish to have your Securities repurchased by the Issuer. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
1.     Repurchase Date: [ ]
2.     Repurchase Price: [ ]
3.     Conversion Rate: To the extent described in Item 5 below, each $1,000 principal amount of the Securities is convertible into [insert number of shares] shares of the Issuer's common stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to adjustment.
4.     Paying Agent and Conversion Agent: [NAME] [ADDRESS]
5.     The Securities as to which you have delivered a Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture and the terms of the Securities only if you withdraw such Repurchase Notice pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. You may be entitled to have your Securities converted into cash or a combination of cash and shares of the Issuer's common stock, if any:
6.     The Securities as to which you have delivered a Repurchase Notice must be surrendered by you (by effecting book entry transfer of the Securities or delivering Certificated Securities, together with necessary endorsements, as the case may be) to [Name of Paying Agent] at [insert address] in order for you to collect the Repurchase Price.
7.     The Repurchase Price for the Securities as to which you have delivered a Repurchase Notice and not withdrawn such Repurchase Notice shall be paid promptly following the later of the business day immediately following such Repurchase Date and the date you deliver such Securities to [Name of Paying Agent].
8.     In order to exercise your option to have the Issuer repurchase your Securities, you must deliver the Repurchase Notice, duly completed by you with the information required by such Repurchase Notice (as specified in Section 3.07 of the Indenture) and deliver such Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent at any time from 9:00 a.m. on [insert day that is 20 Business Days prior to Repurchase Date] until 5:00 p.m. on the [insert day that is the Repurchase Date].
9.     In order to withdraw any Repurchase Notice previously delivered by you to the Paying Agent, you must deliver to the Paying Agent, by 5:00 p.m. on [insert day that is the Repurchase Date], a written notice of withdrawal specifying (i) the certificate number, if any, of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, (ii) the principal amount of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and (iii) if you are not withdrawing your Repurchase Notice for all of your Securities, the principal amount of the Securities which still remain subject to the original Repurchase Notice.
10.     Unless the Issuer defaults in making the payment of the Repurchase Price owed to you, Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on your Securities as to which you have delivered a Repurchase Notice shall cease to accrue on and after the Repurchase Date.
11.     Cusip Number: [         ]
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
EXHIBIT E
[DATE]
To the Holders of the 2.800% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2035 (the "Securities") issued by St. Jude Medical, Inc.:
    St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Issuer") by this written notice hereby notifies you, pursuant to Section 3.08 of that certain Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of December 12, 2005, between the Issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, that a Fundamental Change (as such term and other capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein is defined in the Indenture) as described below has occurred. Included herewith is the form of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to be completed by you if you wish to have your Securities repurchased by the Issuer.
1.     Fundamental Change: [Insert brief description of the Fundamental Change and the date of the occurrence thereof].
2.     Date by which Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice must be delivered by you to Paying Agent in order to have your Securities repurchased:
3.     Fundamental Change Repurchase Date:
4.     Fundamental Change Repurchase Price:
5.     Paying Agent and Conversion Agent: [NAME] [ADDRESS]
6.     Conversion Rate: To the extent described in Item 7 below, each $1,000 principal amount of the Securities is convertible into [insert number of shares] shares of the Issuer's common stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to adjustment.
7.     The Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture and the terms of the Securities only if you withdraw such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. You may be entitled to have your Securities converted into cash or a combination of cash and shares of the Issuer's common stock:
8.     The Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice must be surrendered by you (by effecting book entry transfer of the Securities or delivering Certificated Securities, together with necessary endorsements, as the case may be) to [Name of Paying Agent] at [insert address] in order for you to collect the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
9.     The Fundamental Change Repurchase Price for the Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice and not withdrawn such Notice shall be paid promptly following the later of the Business Day immediately following such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and the date you deliver such Securities to [Name of Paying Agent].
10.     In order to have the Issuer repurchase your Securities, you must deliver the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, duly completed by you with the information required by such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice (as specified in Section 3.08 of the Indenture) and deliver such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent at any time from 9:00 a.m. on the date of the occurrence of the Change of Control until 5:00 p.m. on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
11.     In order to withdraw any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice previously delivered by you to the Paying Agent, you must deliver to the Paying Agent, by 5:00 p.m. on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, a written notice of withdrawal specifying (i) the certificate number, if any, of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, (ii) the principal amount of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and (iii) if you are not withdrawing your Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice for all of your Securities, the principal amount of the Securities which still remain subject to the original Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
12.     Unless the Issuer defaults in making the payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price owed to you, Interest and Contingent Interest, if any, on your Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice shall cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
13.     Cusip Number: [        ]
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
SCHEDULE I
The following table sets forth the Stock Prices and the number of Additional Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities.
            This Cross-Reference Table is not part of the Indenture.
(1)


