FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20060719074608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2006, St. Jude Medical, Inc. issued a press release concerning its financial results for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
St. Jude Medical, Inc. One Lillehei Plaza St. Paul, Minnesota 55117 (651) 483.2000 www.sjm.com
St. Paul, Minn., July 19, 2006  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE:STJ) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Company reported net sales of $833 million, an increase of 15% compared to the $724 million reported in the second quarter of 2005. Unfavorable foreign currency translation comparisons decreased second quarter sales by about $6 million.
Reported net earnings for the second quarter of 2006 were $141 million, or $0.38 per diluted share compared to $101 million, or $0.27 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2005. Reported net earnings for the second quarter of 2006 include a $0.03 per diluted share impact related to stock compensation expense.
Adjusted net earnings were $154 million, or $0.41 per diluted share in the second quarter compared to $0.38 adjusted diluted earnings per share in the second quarter of 2005. See the attached schedules for a reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share to the Company's reported GAAP results.
Commenting on second quarter 2006 results, St. Jude Medical Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Daniel J. Starks said, "St. Jude Medical demonstrated strong growth this quarter due to solid contributions from our multiple growth platforms.
"In Cardiac Rhythm Management, we launched 10 new products during the quarter and expanded the Company's U.S. field sales and support organization. We believe the strength of St. Jude Medical's portfolio, together with these new products and new people, helped to drive increased sales that exceeded the growth rate of the market and achieved market share gains in implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs). While the limited competitive data currently available suggests continued weakness in the ICD market, we remain confident in the market's long-term growth prospects given the life-saving benefits and underpenetration of this technology."
Sales results for each of the business segments are detailed below.
Cardiac Rhythm Management
Second quarter ICD product sales were $278 million, a 14% increase over the comparable quarter of 2005.
Second quarter pacemaker sales were $241 million, an increase of 2% from the comparable quarter of 2005.
Atrial Fibrillation
Atrial fibrillation product sales for the second quarter totaled $80 million, a 33% increase over the second quarter of 2005.
Cardiology
Total sales of cardiology products for the second quarter were $115 million, a 3% increase over the comparable period in 2005. Within this category of products, vascular sealing device sales for the second quarter of 2006 totaled $87 million, a 2% increase over the second quarter of last year.
Cardiac Surgery
Total cardiac surgery sales for the second quarter of 2006 were $75 million, a 7% increase over the second quarter of last year. Sales of heart valve products this quarter were approximately $71 million, up 9% when compared with the second quarter of last year.
Neuromodulation
St. Jude Medical sales of neuromodulation products totaled $44 million in the second quarter of 2006, up 13% from Advanced Neuromodulation Systems' stand-alone sales in the second quarter of 2005. St. Jude Medical did not have neuromodulation sales during the second quarter of 2005.
Third Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Guidance
During a conference call today, St. Jude Medical will provide sales and earnings guidance for the third quarter and for the full-year 2006. The Company expects its consolidated EPS for the third quarter of 2006 to be in the range of $0.36 to $0.39 per diluted share and EPS for the full year 2006 to be in the range of $1.49 to $1.55.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company provides adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share because St. Jude Medical management believes that in order to properly understand the Company's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of certain adjustments (such as in-process research and development charges, litigation reserve adjustments and income tax adjustments). These adjustments result from facts and circumstances (such as business development activities, settlements and other developments relating to litigation and resolution of audits by tax authorities) that vary in frequency and impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company's non-GAAP adjusted net earnings also exclude stock-based compensation expense which the Company started recording under FAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006.  St. Jude Medical management uses adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share to forecast and evaluate the operational performance of the Company as well as to compare results of current periods to prior periods on a consolidated basis.  The Company's non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share include the effects of FAS 123(R) on the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Investors should consider non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Conference Call/Webcast
St. Jude Medical's second quarter earnings conference call can be heard live today at 7:30 a.m. Central Time (also archived for 90 days) on the following website:
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=73836&eventID=1140648.
About St. Jude Medical
St. Jude Medical is dedicated to making life better for cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide through excellence in medical device technology and services. The Company has five major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiac surgery, cardiology and neuromodulation. Headquartered in St. Paul, Minn., St. Jude Medical employs approximately 10,000 people worldwide. For more information, please visit www.sjm.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical success, regulatory approvals, anticipated future product launches, revenues, margins, earnings, and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Company's filings with the SEC, including the risk factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 16, 2006 (see Item 1A on pages 15-21) and the cautionary statements described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2006 (see pages 29-30). The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.


