FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20061018074608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 18, 2006, St. Jude Medical, Inc. issued a press release concerning its financial results for the third quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
St. Jude Medical Reports Third Quarter Sales and Earnings
 
ST PAUL, Minn. October 18, 2006  St. Jude Medical, Inc., (NYSE: STJ) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006. The Company reported net sales of $821 million, an increase of 11% compared to the $738 million reported in the third quarter of 2005. Favorable foreign currency translation comparisons increased third quarter sales by about $7 million.
 
Reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2006 were $116 million, or $0.32 per diluted share. Reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2006 include a pre-tax charge of approximately $35 million, or $0.06 per share, related to the previously announced combination of St. Jude Medical's Cardiac Surgery and Cardiology divisions and changes to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the Company's sales and customer service operations in certain international geographies. Reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2006 also include a pre-tax charge of approximately $18 million, or $0.03 per share, related to stock based compensation. This compares to reported net earnings of $168 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2005.
 
Commenting on third quarter 2006 results, St. Jude Medical Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Daniel J. Starks said, "Our third quarter results reinforce our optimism that we are well positioned to return to stronger growth in 2007 and beyond. We believe that we continued to gain market share in ICDs, pacemakers and atrial fibrillation products, all of which are key to our long-term success."
 
Sales results for each of the business segments are detailed below.
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management
 
Third quarter ICD product sales were $271 million, a 2% decrease compared to the third quarter of 2005.
 
Third quarter pacemaker sales were $248 million, an increase of 7% from the comparable quarter of 2005.
 
Atrial Fibrillation
 
Atrial fibrillation product sales for the third quarter totaled $81 million, a 29% increase over the third quarter of 2005.
Cardiology
 
Total sales of cardiology products for the third quarter were $109 million, a 4% increase over the comparable period in 2005. Within this category of products, vascular sealing device sales for the third quarter of 2006 totaled $84 million, a 6% increase over the third quarter of last year.
 
Cardiac Surgery
 
Total cardiac surgery sales for the third quarter of 2006 were $68 million, a 10% increase over the third quarter of last year. Sales of heart valve products this quarter were approximately $64 million, up 10% when compared with the third quarter of last year.
 
Neuromodulation
 
St. Jude Medical sales of neuromodulation products were approximately $44 million in the third quarter of 2006, up 13% from Advanced Neuromodulation Systems' stand-alone sales in the third quarter of 2005. St. Jude Medical did not have neuromodulation sales during the third quarter of 2005.
 
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Guidance
 
During a conference call today, St. Jude Medical will provide sales and earnings guidance for the fourth quarter and for the full-year 2006. The Company expects its consolidated earnings for the fourth quarter of 2006 to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.40 per diluted share.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The Company provides adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share because St. Jude Medical management believes that in order to properly understand the Company's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of certain adjustments (such as in-process research and development charges, restructuring charges, litigation reserve adjustments and income tax adjustments). These adjustments result from facts and circumstances (such as business development activities, restructuring activities, settlements and other developments relating to litigation and resolution of audits by tax authorities) that vary in frequency and impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company's non-GAAP adjusted net earnings also exclude stock-based compensation expense which the Company started recording under FAS 123R in the first quarter of 2006. St. Jude Medical management uses adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share to forecast and evaluate the operational performance of the Company as well as to compare results of current periods to prior periods on a consolidated basis. The Company's non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share include the effects of FAS 123R on the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Investors should consider non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Conference Call/Webcast
 
St. Jude Medical's third quarter earnings conference call can be heard live today at 7:30 a.m. CT (also archived for 90 days) on the following website:
 
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=73836&eventID=1370509.
 
(Due to its length, this URL may need to be copied/pasted into your Internet browser's address field. Remove the extra space if one exists).
 
About St. Jude Medical
St. Jude Medical is dedicated to making life better for cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide through excellence in medical device technology and services. The Company has five major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiac surgery, cardiology and neuromodulation. Headquartered in St. Paul, Minn., St. Jude Medical employs approximately 11,000 people worldwide. For more information, please visit www.sjm.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, regulatory approvals, anticipated future product launches, revenues, margins, earnings, and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Company's filings with the SEC, including those described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 16, 2006 (see Item 1A on pages 15-21) and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 7, 2006 (see page 31 and Item 1A on page 32). The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
St. Jude Medical, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
 


