FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20070425160322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 19, 2007
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code  
(651) 483-2000
 
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01.   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
On April 19, 2007, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC (the "Initial Purchaser"), whereby the Company agreed to sell and the Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase, subject to and upon terms and conditions set forth therein, $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2008 (the "Debentures") to be issued under the Indenture referred to below. In addition, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company granted to the Initial Purchaser an option to purchase up to an additional $200 million in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to cover over-allotments. The Initial Purchaser exercised this option in full. The net proceeds from the sale of the Debentures, after deducting the Initial Purchaser's discount of $4.8 million and expenses payable by the Company, are expected to be approximately $1.194 billion. The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and customary conditions to closing, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties and termination provisions. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Initial Purchaser and its affiliates have provided, and may in the future provide, various investment banking, commercial banking and other financial services to the Company for which services they have received, and may in the future receive, customary fees. Banc of America Securities LLC is the sole lead arranger and sole book manager under the Company's Multi-Year $1.0 billion Credit Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2006, among the Company, as the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Chicago Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the other lenders party thereto (the "Credit Facility") and receives customary fees in connection therewith. In addition, an affiliate of Banc of America Securities LLC is an agent and lender under the Credit Facility and receives customary fees in connection therewith. An affiliate of Banc of America Securities LLC is also the lender under the Company's $700 million Interim Liquidity Facility, dated as of January 25, 2007, between the Company and Bank of America N.A., as Lender, receives customary fees in connection therewith and will receive a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of the Debentures through the repayment of indebtedness under that facility. Banc of America Securities LLC also acts as a dealer under the Company's commercial paper program.
The closing of the sale of the Debentures occurred on April 25, 2007. The Debentures and the shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable in certain circumstances upon conversion of the Debentures, as described below and as more fully set forth in the Indenture referred to below, have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company offered and sold the Debentures to the Initial Purchaser in a private placement in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchaser then resold the Debentures to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchaser in the Purchase Agreement.
Indenture
On April 25, 2007, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with U.S. Bank National Association ("U.S. Bank"), a national banking association, as trustee, regarding the Debentures. A copy of the Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Indenture sets forth the rights and governing provisions of the Debentures, including:
Interest Payments
. The Company will pay interest on the Debentures on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning June 15, 2007, at an annual rate of 1.22%.
Conversion
. The Debentures will be convertible, at the holder's option, into cash and shares of the Company's Common Stock, if any, at a conversion rate of 19.2101
shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $52.06 per share), subject to adjustment as described in the Indenture, at any time before the stated maturity (December 15, 2008), from and after the date of the following events:
 
2
On conversion, the Company will deliver cash equal to the lesser of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be converted and the Company's total conversion obligation and, at the Company's option, cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company's conversion obligation. If certain corporate transactions occur on or before December 15, 2008, the Company will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of Common Stock or, in lieu thereof, the Company may in certain circumstances elect to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligation so that the Debentures are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company.
Redemption
. The Debentures are not redeemable at the option of the Company prior to maturity.
Repurchase
. The Debenture holders may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Debentures, subject to specified conditions, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as described in the Indenture), at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional amounts (as described below), if any, to the repurchase date.
Ranking
. The Debentures are the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and rank equal in priority with all of the Company's existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness and senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness. The Debentures effectively rank junior to all of the Company's existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness and to all liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries.
U.S. Bank is also a lender under the Credit Facility.
Events of Default
. Upon the occurrence of an "Event of Default" (as defined in the Indenture), the principal amount of the Debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional amounts (as described below), if any, may be declared immediately due and payable, subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. These amounts automatically become due and payable upon the occurrence of certain Events of Default involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. Events of Default under the Indenture include, among other things, (1) a default in the payment of principal of the Debentures when due at maturity, upon repurchase or otherwise; (2) a default in the payment of any interest, including additional amounts, if any, on the Debentures when due and such failure continues for a period of 30 days past the applicable due date; (3) failure by the Company to provide notice of the occurrence of a fundamental change as required by the Indenture; (4) a default in the Company's obligation to deliver the settlement amount upon conversion of the Debentures, together with cash in respect of any fractional shares, upon conversion of any Debentures and such default continues for a period of 5 days or more; (5) subject to certain exceptions, failure to perform or observe any other covenant or warranty in the Indenture or in the Debentures for 60 days after written notice to the Company from the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee form the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Debentures has been received by the Company; and (6) certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization by the Company or one of its significant subsidiaries (as defined in Regulation S-X 1-02(w)(1) or (2)).
Registration Rights Agreement
In connection with the sale of the Debentures, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2007, with the Initial Purchaser (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause to become effective, within 220 days after the closing of the offering of the Debentures, a shelf registration statement (the "Shelf Registration Statement") with respect to the resale of the Debentures and any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective until the earliest of (1) two years after the closing of the offering of the Debentures; (2) the date when the holders of Debentures and holders of any shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion of the Debentures are
 
3
 
able to sell such Debentures and such shares immediately without restriction under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act; and (3) the date when (a) all of the Debentures and any Common Stock issuable on conversion thereof have been sold either (i) under the Shelf Registration Statement or (ii) under Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force or (b) the Debentures and any shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion of the Debentures cease to be outstanding. The Company will be required to pay additional amounts, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Debentures if it fails to comply with its obligation to register the Debentures and any Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the sale of the Debentures, on April 19, 2007, the Company entered into a convertible note hedge transaction with respect to the Common Stock (the "Options") with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Dealer"). The Options cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 23,052,120 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of approximately $52.06. The Company paid an aggregate amount of approximately $101 million of the proceeds from the sale of the Debentures for the Options. A copy of the Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge relating to the Options is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the sale of the Debentures, on April 19, 2007, the Company also entered into a separate warrant transaction with the Dealer, whereby in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, the Company sold to the Dealer warrants relating to, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 23,052,120 shares of Common Stock (the "Warrants") at an exercise price of approximately $60.73 per share of Common Stock. The warrant transaction is divided into 40 individual components. The Warrants will terminate in components over a 40-trading-day period commencing April 15, 2009. The Company received aggregate proceeds of approximately $35 million from the sale of the Warrants. A copy of the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction relating to the Warrants is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Options and the Warrants are separate contracts entered into by the Company with the Dealer, are not part of the terms of the Debentures and will not affect the holders' rights under the Debentures. The Options are intended to offset potential dilution upon conversion of the Debentures in the event that the market value per share of the Common Stock at the time of exercise is greater than the exercise price of the Options, which is equal to the initial conversion price of the Debentures and is subject to certain adjustments that correspond to adjustments to the conversion price of the Debentures. If the market value per share of the Common Stock during the relevant valuation period is above the exercise price of the Options, the Options entitle the Company to receive from the Dealer net shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, depending on the consideration paid by the Company upon conversion of the underlying Debentures, based on the excess of the market price of the Common Stock over the exercise price of the Options during such valuation period.
General
The Debentures, the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures, the Warrants and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
The foregoing descriptions do not purport to be complete descriptions of the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Debentures, the rights of the holders of the Debentures, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge or the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction. Such descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full terms and provisions of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture (including the form of Convertible Senior Debenture due 2008), the Registration Rights Agreement, the Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge and the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction.
Private Block Trade Share Repurchase
Contemporaneously with the sale of the Debentures, on April 25, 2007, through a block trade with the Initial Purchaser, the Company repurchased simultaneously with the sale of the Debentures an aggregate of $224,595,612
 
4
 
of shares of Common Stock (5,177,400 shares of Common Stock at $43.38, the last reported sale price of the Common Stock on April 19, 2007) from the Initial Purchaser.
Open Market Purchase Plan
On April 25, 2007, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Plan Engagement Agreement (the "Plan") with Banc of America Securities LLC in order to establish a trading plan under Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Plan provides for the Company to repurchase up to approximately $75.4 million of its outstanding shares of Common Stock at market prices less than $50 per share, beginning on April 26, 2007 and ending on or before May 8, 2007. A copy of the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03.   Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information contained in Item 1.01 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.02.   Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
The information contained in Item 1.01 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
5
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to  be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  April 25, 2007
 
 
 
6
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
          INDENTURE dated as of April 25, 2007 between ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation (""), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association ("").
Company
Trustee
          Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2008:
          Section 1.01
. Definitions.
          "" means a permanent Global Security in the form of the Security attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that is deposited with and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing Securities sold in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
144A Global Security
          "" means the interest that is payable by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement upon a Registration Default (as defined in such agreement).
Additional Amounts
          "" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
          "" means the agent of the Company appointed to obtain quotations for the Securities as set forth under the definition of Trading Price, which shall initially be the Trustee and shall at no time be an Affiliate of the Company. The Company may, from time to time, change the Bid Solicitation Agent.
Bid Solicitation Agent
          "" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
          "" means a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Board Resolution
          "" means, with respect to any Security, any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York.
Business Day
          "" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
Capital Stock
          "" means U.S. legal tender.
cash
          "" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Certificated Securities
          "" means the occurrence at such time after the original issuance of the Securities when any of the following has occurred:
Change of Control
          (1) a "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule 13D or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of shares of Common Stock representing more than 50% of the Voting Stock; or
          (2) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors does not consist of Continuing Directors; or
          (3) a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange, or any conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's properties and assets to another person, other than:
          The term "person" as used in this definition includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
          "" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
close of business
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
          "" means the common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company existing on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which such Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed, including, subject to Section 10.05 below, in the event of a merger, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company that is otherwise permitted hereunder in which the Company is not the surviving person, the common stock of such surviving corporation.
Common Stock
          "" means the party named as the "Company" in the preamble of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Company
          "" means a notice to Holders delivered pursuant to Section 3.02.
Company Notice
          "" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any Officer.
Company Request
Company Order
          "" means a director who either was a member of the Board of Directors on the date the Securities are first issued hereunder or who becomes a member of the Board of Directors subsequent to that date and whose appointment, election or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders is duly approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors on the Board of Directors at the time of such approval, either by specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board of Directors in which such individual is named as nominee for director.
Continuing Director
          "" means (A) with respect to the Conversion Settlement Distribution (other than any Additional Shares which may be issuable
Conversion Settlement Date
pursuant to Section 10.01(c)), the third Business Day immediately following the Cash Settlement Period, and (B) with respect to any Additional Shares which may be issuable, the later of (i) the fifth Business Day following the effective date of any Change of Control transaction and (2) the third Business Day immediately following the Cash Settlement Period.
          "" as of any date means $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate as of such date.
Conversion Price
          "" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 60 Livingston Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55107, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
          "" of the Common Stock on any day means the average of the Last Reported Sale Price per share of the Common Stock for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the "Ex-Dividend Date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, subject to adjustment by the Board of Directors if another transaction requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.04 occurs during such ten day period.
Current Market Price
          "" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time, would be, an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
          "" means the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock, regular way on the relevant exchange or in the relevant market for the Common Stock, does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant dividend or distribution from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer.
Ex-Dividend Date
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
          "", or "" means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's-length transaction.
Fair Market Value
fair market value
          "" means either a Change of Control or a Termination of Trading.
Fundamental Change
          "" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that are registered in the register of Securities in
Global Securities
the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof, and to the extent that such Securities are required to bear the Legend required by Section 2.06(g), such Securities shall be in the form of a 144A Global Security.
          "" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
Securityholder
          "" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
          "" means interest payable on each Security pursuant to Section 1 of the Securities.
Interest
          "" means June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2007.
Interest Payment Date
          "" means June 1 and December 1 of each year.
Interest Record Date
          "" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
          "" means, with respect to any security on any date, the closing sale price (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported by the NYSE or, if the Common Stock is not reported by the NYSE, in composite transactions for the principal other U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange on the relevant date, the "Last Reported Sale Price" shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the "Last Reported Sale Price" shall be the average of the midpoint of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three independent nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
Last Reported Sale Price
          "" means The NASDAQ Stock Market.
NASDAQ
          "" means The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
          "" means the offering memorandum of the Company dated April 19, 2007 relating to the offering of the Securities.
Offering Memorandum
          "" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the
Officer
Controller, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
          "" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 11.04 and 11.05, signed in the name of the Company by any Officer, and delivered to the Trustee. An Officer's Certificate given pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company but need not contain the information specified in Sections 11.04 and 11.05.
Officer's Certificate
          "" means 9:00 a.m. (New York City time).
open of business
          "" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 11.04 and 11.05, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
          "" means the Purchase Agreement dated April 19, 2007 between the Company, on the one hand, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the several initial purchasers, on the other, relating to the Securities.
Purchase Agreement
          "" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
Record Date
          "" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated the date hereof, between the Company, on the one hand, and Banc of America Securities LLC, on the other.
Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer of the Trustee within the Institutional Trust Services department (or any successor department) of the Trustee located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee who has direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for the purposes of Section 7.01(c)(2) and 7.05 shall also mean any other officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject matter.
Responsible Officer
          "" means a Security required to bear the Legend.
Restricted Security
          "" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
          "" means any of the Company's 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2008, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Security
          "" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Securityholder
Holder
          "" means any subsidiary of the Company that is a significant subsidiary at any determination date pursuant to Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w)(1) or (2).
Significant Subsidiary
          "", when used with respect to any Security, means December 15, 2008.
Stated Maturity
          "" means the price per share of Common Stock paid in connection with a Change of Control transaction pursuant to which Additional Shares are issuable as set forth in Section 10.01(c) hereof, which shall be equal to (i) if Holders of Common Stock receive only cash in such Change of Control transaction, the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock and (ii) in all other cases, the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days prior to, but not including, the effective date of such Change of Control transaction.
Stock Price
          "" means any person of which at least a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time directly or indirectly be owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
           "" means the occurrence, at any time, of the Common Stock of the Company (or other common stock into which the Securities are then convertible) not being listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange
Termination of Trading
.
          "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, , , that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
          "" means a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the NYSE or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the NYSE, then a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common
Trading Day
Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, then on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded or quoted.
          "" of the Securities on any date of determination means the average of the secondary market bid quotations per $1,000 principal amount of the Securities obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent for $5,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Securities at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers the Company selects, if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, that one bid shall be used. If the Bid Solicitation Agent cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Securities from a nationally recognized securities dealer, or in the Company's reasonable judgment, the bid quotations are not indicative of the secondary market value of $1,000 principal amount of the Securities, then for purposes of determining whether the condition to conversion of the Securities set forth in Section 10.01(a)(2) has been satisfied, the Trading Price of the Securities will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate on such date.
Trading Price
provided that
          "" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the preamble of this Indenture unless and until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
          "" of a person means Capital Stock of such person of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such person (irrespective of whether or not at the time Capital Stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
          Section 1.02
. Other Definitions.
          Section 1.03Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings
. Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
          "" means the SEC.
Commission
          "" means the Securities.
indenture securities
          "" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
          "" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
          "" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
          "" on the indenture securities means the Company.
obligor
          All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rules have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
          Section 1.04Unless the context otherwise requires:
. Rules of Construction.
          Section 1.05(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company, as described in Section 11.02. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
. Acts of Holders.
Act
          (b) The fact and date of the execution by any person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (c) The principal amount and serial number of any Security and the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register for the Securities.
          (d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
          (e) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
provided
          Section 2.01(a) The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A and B, which are a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities may, but need not, have the corporate seal of the Company or a facsimile thereof affixed thereto or imprinted thereon.
. Form and Dating.
          (b)Securities offered and sold within the United States to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A ("") in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of a 144A Global Security, which shall be deposited with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary (as defined below) and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("") or the nominee thereof (DTC, or any successor thereto, and any such nominee being hereinafter referred to as the ""), duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the 144A Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary as hereinafter provided.
144A Global Securities.
QIBs
DTC
Depositary
          (c) . Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed in the Schedule of Increases and Decreases of Global Security attached thereto and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, repurchases and conversions.
Global Securities in General
          Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof, and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary.
          (d) . This Section 2.01(d) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
Book-Entry Provisions
          The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(d), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or held by the Trustee pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.
          (e) Securities not issued as interests in the Global Securities shall be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.
Certificated Securities.
          Section 2.02The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by one Officer. The signature of such Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
. Execution and Authentication.
          Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signature of an individual who was, at the time of the execution of the Securities, an Officer shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of authentication of such Securities.
          No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
          The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion (plus up to $200 million upon exercise of the Initial Purchaser's option to purchase additional Securities) upon one or more Company Orders without any further action by the Company (other than as contemplated in Section 11.04 and Section 11.05 hereof). The aggregate principal amount of the Securities due at the Stated Maturity thereof outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the foregoing sentence.
          The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and any integral multiple of $1,000.
          Section 2.03The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents, one or more additional bid solicitation agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05.
. Registrar, Paying Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent and Conversion Agent.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
          The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent or co-registrar (in each case, if such Registrar, agent or co-registrar is a person other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent or co-registrar.
          The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
          Section 2.04Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or shares of Common Stock sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money and shares of Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any Default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such Default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and shares of Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and shares of Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time
. Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust.
may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and shares of Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or shares of Common Stock.
          Section 2.05The Trustee shall preserve the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on June 1 and December 1 a listing of Securityholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders.
. Securityholder Lists.
          Section 2.06(a) Subject to Section 2.12 hereof, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such transfer or exchange.
. Transfer and Exchange.
          At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
          The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased).
          (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall,
except as set forth in Section 2.12, be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole or in part, to the Depositary, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
          (c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities.
          (d) Except as otherwise set forth in this Indenture, any such action taken by a Holder shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Securities issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security or any Security issued in exchange or substitution therefor.
          (e) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities.
          (f) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
          (g) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends relating to such restrictions imposed by the securities laws set forth on the forms of Security attached hereto as Exhibits A and B setting forth such restrictions (collectively, the ""), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an opinion of counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar and the Trustee (if not the same person as the Registrar), that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Upon (i) provision of such satisfactory evidence, or (ii) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated.
Legend
          Section 2.07If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to
. Replacement Securities.
their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
          Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
          Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section 2.07 are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
          Section 2.08Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those purchased pursuant to Section 2.07, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; , , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other Act hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of
. Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action.
provided
however
such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Article 6 and Article 9).
          If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
          If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on the Business Day immediately following a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then from and after such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities shall cease to accrue.
          If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the date of conversion, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, shall cease to accrue and the rights of the Holders therein shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Conversion Settlement Distribution).
          Section 2.09Pending the preparation of Certificated Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the Certificated Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the Officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
. Temporary Securities.
          If temporary Securities are issued, the Company shall cause Certificated Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of Certificated Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for Certificated Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.03, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of Certificated Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as Certificated Securities.
          Section 2.10All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 3, conversion or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously
. Cancellation.
authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation other than in connection with registrations of transfer or exchange or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure.
          Section 2.11Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of the principal amount of the Security or any portion thereof, or the payment of any Fundamental Change Repurchase Price in respect thereof, and Interest or Additional Amounts thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
. Persons Deemed Owners.
          Section 2.12(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(i) below, (B) transfers of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(ii) below and Section 2.12(e) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06, Section 2.12(a)(iii) and Section 2.12(a)(iv) below.
. Global Securities.
then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Security and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate principal amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be increased by the aggregate principal amount of the Certificated Security to be exchanged, and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the principal amount of the Certificated Security so cancelled. If no Global Securities are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate, upon written order of the Company in the form of an Officer's Certificate, a new Global Security in the appropriate principal amount.
          (b) Subject to the succeeding Section 2.12(c), every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend including the delivery of an opinion of counsel, if so provided. Whenever any Restricted Security is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit C, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
          (c) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities
Act (or any successor provision thereto), by an opinion of counsel having substantial experience in practice under the Securities Act and otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Trustee, addressed to the Company and the Trustee and in form acceptable to the Company and the Trustee, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Security, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of counsel or registration statement.
          (d) As used in the preceding two paragraphs of this Section 2.12, the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, loan, hypothecation, or other disposition of any Security.
          (e) The provisions of clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
          (f) The Trustee and the Registrar shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are
expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
          The Trustee shall have no responsibility for the actions or omissions of the Depositary, or the accuracy of the books and records of the Depositary.
          Section 2.13The Company may issue the Securities with one or more "CUSIP", "ISIN" or other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" , "ISIN" or other similar numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a purchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers.
. CUSIP Numbers.
          Section 3.01 The Securities shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company prior to its Stated Maturity.
. Company's Right to Redeem.
          Section 3.02(a) If a Fundamental Change occurs, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase for cash all of such Holder's Securities, or any portion thereof that is equal to or an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities, plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on those Securities (the " ") to, but not including, the date that is 20 Business Days following the date of the notice of a Fundamental Change mailed by the Company pursuant to Section 3.02(b) (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.02(c); that if the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date is on a date that is after an Interest Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be 100% of the principal amount of the Securities repurchased but shall not include accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any. Instead, the Company shall pay such Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Interest Payment Date to the Holder of Record on the corresponding Interest Record Date.
. Repurchase of Securities at Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change.
Fundamental Change Repurchase
Price
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
provided,
          (b) No later than 15 days after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall mail a Company Notice of the Fundamental Change
(substantially in the form of Exhibit D) by first class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners if required by applicable law). The Company Notice shall include a form of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall state:
          At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give such Company Notice to each Holder in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , , that, in all cases, the text of such Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
provided
however
          (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in this Section 3.02 upon delivery of a written notice of repurchase (a "") to the Paying Agent at any time on or prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, stating:
Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
          The delivery of such Security (together with all necessary endorsements) to the Paying Agent with the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price therefor; , that such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.02 only if the Security (together with all necessary endorsements) so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
provided, however
          The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.02, a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is
$1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security.
          Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.02 shall be consummated by the delivery of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price promptly following the later of the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or the time of delivery of such Security (together with all necessary endorsements or notifications of book-entry transfer).
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, Holders shall not have the right to require us to repurchase the Securities upon a Change of Control described in clause (3) of the definition thereof if more than 90% of the consideration in the transaction or transactions constituting such Change of Control consists of shares of common stock traded or to be traded immediately following such Change of Control on a U.S. national securities exchange, and, as a result of such transaction or transactions, the Securities become convertible into such common stock (and any rights attached thereto) subject to the settlement provisions of Section 10.03.
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.02(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.03(b) at any time prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
          The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
          Section 3.03(a) Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice specified in Section 3.02, the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in Section 3.03(b)) thereafter be entitled solely to receive the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price with respect to such Security whether or not the Security is, in fact, properly delivered. Such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds and/or securities by the Paying Agent, promptly following the later of (x) the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 3.02 have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.02. Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to and to the extent permitted by Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Fundamental Change Repurchase
. Effect of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
Notice unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in Section 3.03(b).
          (b) A Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice at any time, if received by the Paying Agent prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date specifying:
          Section 3.04Prior to 10:00 a.m. (local time in The City of New York) on the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of cash in immediately available funds sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
. Deposit of Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
          Section 3.05Any Certificated Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased.
. Securities Purchased in Part.
          Section 3.06When complying with the provisions of Section 3.02 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any
. Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Securities.
exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall (i) comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) and any other applicable tender offer rules under the Exchange Act, (ii) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with all Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.02 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.02.
          Section 3.07The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed as provided in Section 12 of the Securities, together with interest, if any, thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)), held by them for the payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
. Repayment to the Company.
          Section 4.01The Company shall make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Any amounts of cash in immediately available funds or shares of Common Stock to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, by the Company. The principal amount of, and Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities, and the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (which, in the case of a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, shall be on the Business Day immediately following the applicable Fundamental Change Repurchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due.
. Payment of Securities.
          Section 4.02The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company shall also comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
. SEC and Other Reports.
          Section 4.03The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending December 29, 2007) an Officer's Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signer thereof, the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which such Officer may have knowledge and otherwise comply with Section 314(a)(4) of the TIA.
. Compliance Certificate.
          The Company shall, so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days of any executive officer of the Company becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officer's Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
          Section 4.04The Company shall execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
. Further Instruments and Acts.
          Section 4.05The Company shall maintain in the United States of America an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, purchase or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, as listed in Section 11.02, shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 11.02.
. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes.
provided
however
          Section 4.06At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act until such time as neither the Securities nor any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Securities are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 of the
. Delivery of Certain Information.
Securities Act, upon the request of a Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or Holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, the Company shall promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or Holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder or beneficial owner, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or beneficial owner with Rule 144A in connection with the resale of any such security. "" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Whether a person is a beneficial owner shall be determined by the Company to the Company's reasonable satisfaction.
Rule 144A Information
          Section 4.07In the event that the Company is required to pay Additional Amounts to Holders of Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall provide written notice ("") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay Additional Amounts prior to the required payment date for the Additional Amounts, and the Additional Amounts Notice shall set forth the amount of Additional Amounts to be paid by the Company on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty to any Holder of Securities to determine the Additional Amounts, or with respect to the nature, extent or calculation of the amount of Additional Amounts when made, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Additional Amounts.
. Additional Amounts Notice.
Additional Amounts Notice
          Section 5.01The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other person or convey, transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person, unless:
. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets.
          For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company.
          The successor person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor person to which such conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 9.06, the Company, the Trustee and the successor person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor person and such discharge and release of the Company.
          Section 6.01So long as any Securities are outstanding, each of the following shall be an "":
. Events of Default.
Event of Default
          (a)   following the exercise by the Holder of the right to convert a Security in accordance with Article 10 hereof, the Company fails to comply with its obligations to deliver the cash or shares of Common Stock, if any, required to be delivered as part of the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution on the applicable Conversion Settlement Date and such failure continues for a period of 5 days or more;
          (b)   the Company defaults in its obligation to provide timely notice of a Fundamental Change to the Trustee and each Holder as required under Section 3.02(b);
          (c)   the Company defaults in the payment of the principal amount of any Security when due at maturity, upon repurchase or otherwise (including, without limitation, upon the exercise by a Holder of its right to require the Company to repurchase such Securities pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.02 hereof);
          (d)   the Company defaults in the payment of any Interest, including Additional Amounts, if any, when due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days past the applicable due date;
          (e)   the Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or warranty or agreement in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clause (a) through clause (d) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default;
          (f)   the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premise of (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law (any "") or (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of any of their property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order described in clause (i) or (ii) above is unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; and
Bankruptcy Law
          (g)   (i) the commencement by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or (ii) the consent by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, or (iii) the filing by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or (iv) the consent by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or the taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary
or of any substantial part of any of their property, or (v) the making by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due.
          The foregoing shall constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
          For the avoidance of doubt, clause (e) above shall not constitute an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding notify the Company and the Trustee, of such default and the Company does not cure such default (and such default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (e) above (subject to the provisions of Section 6.01(h) below) after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "."
Notice of Default
          (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Indenture, to the extent elected by the Company in its sole discretion, the sole remedy for an Event of Default described in clause (e) above relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 hereof or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA, if applicable, will for the first 90 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Securities at an annual rate equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Securities (the ""). This extension fee will be in addition to any Additional Amounts on the Securities that may accrue as a result of a Registration Default (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) and will be payable in the same manner as Additional Amounts accruing on the Securities as a result of a Registration Default. The extension fee will accrue on all outstanding Securities from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 hereof or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA first occurs to, but not including, the 90th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA shall have been cured or waived). On such 90th day (or earlier, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA is cured or waived prior to such 90th day), such extension fee will cease to accrue and, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA has not been cured or waived prior to such 90th day, the Securities will be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 6.02 hereof. The provisions of this paragraph will not affect the rights of Holders of Securities in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default and will have no effect on the rights of Holders of Securities under the Registration Rights Agreement. In the event the Company
extension fee
does not elect to pay the extension fee upon an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 4.02 or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA in accordance with this paragraph, the Securities will be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 6.02 hereof. To make such election, the Company must give notice to the Trustee for Holders of the Securities prior to the day any such Event of Default occurs.
          Section 6.02Subject to Section 6.01(h), if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or Section 6.01(g) with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing (the Event of Default not having been cured or waived), the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such accelerated amount shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or Section 6.01(g) with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, and thereby waive the Events of Default giving rise to such acceleration, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, that have become due solely as a result of acceleration. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
. Acceleration.
          Section 6.03If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture.
. Other Remedies.
          The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
          Section 6.04The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder), may waive any existing or past Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 or (2) an Event of Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Securityholder affected. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(B) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
. Waiver of Past Defaults.
          Section 6.05The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Securityholders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability; , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction or this Indenture. Prior to taking any action under this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
. Control by Majority.
provided
          Section 6.06A Securityholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities, except in case of a Default due to the non-payment of the principal amount of the Securities, any accrued and unpaid Interest or any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, unless:
. Limitation on Suits.
          A Securityholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Securityholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Securityholder.
          Section 6.07Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities or any Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment or the right to convert on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment.
          Section 6.08If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01 clauses (a) through (d) (other than (b)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to the Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
. Collection Suit by Trustee.
          Section 6.09In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
          The Company agrees not to object to the Trustee participating as a member of any official committee of creditors of the Company as it deems necessary or advisable.
          Section 6.10Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article 6, and, after an Event of Default, any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture, shall be paid out in the following order:
. Priorities.
          The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Securityholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
          Section 6.11In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. This Section 6.11 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
. Undertaking for Costs.
          Section 6.12The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or
. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws.
advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and any accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on Securities, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
          Section 7.01
. Duties of Trustee.
          (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
          (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
          (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
          Subparagraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
          (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to this Section 7.01.
          (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
          (f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company (provided that any interest earned on money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder shall be the property of the Company).
          (g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
          Section 7.02Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
. Rights of Trustee.
          Section 7.03The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10 and Section 7.11.
. Individual Rights of Trustee.
          Section 7.04The Trustee makes no representation as to, and shall have no responsibility for, the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application by the Company of the Securities or of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for the correctness of any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in any offering document for the Securities, the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
. Trustee's Disclaimer.
          Section 7.05If a Default or Event of Default occurs and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Securityholder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs or, if later, within 15 days after it is known to the Trustee, unless such Default or Event of Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except in the case of a Default or Event of Default described in clauses (c) and (d) of Section 6.01, the Trustee may withhold
. Notice of Defaults.
the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Securityholders. The preceding sentence shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice of such Default or Event of Default, which notice specifically references this Indenture and the Securities.
          Section 7.06Within 60 days after each December 31 beginning with May 15, 2008, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder a brief report dated as of such December 31 that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if required by such Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b). Any reports required by this Section 7.06 shall be transmitted by mail to Securityholders pursuant to TIA Section 313(c).
. Reports by Trustee to Holders.
          A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Securityholders shall be filed with the SEC and each securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities are listed. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee promptly whenever the Securities become listed on any securities exchange and of any delisting thereof.
          To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the principal amount of, or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, Interest or Additional Amounts, if any, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
          The Company's payment, reimbursement and indemnity obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture for any reason. In addition to and without prejudice to its rights hereunder, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or Section 6.01(g), the expenses, including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel and the compensation for services payable pursuant to Section 7.07(a), are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws.
          For the purposes of this Section 7.07, the "Trustee" shall include any predecessor Trustee; provided, however, that except as may be otherwise agreed among the parties, the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
          Section 7.08The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company; , however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 7.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
. Replacement of Trustee.
provided
          If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
          A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor
Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Securityholders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
          If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Company for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Securityholder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          So long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, if the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (i) a Board Resolution appointing a successor Trustee, effective as of a date at least 30 days after delivery of such Resolution to the Trustee, and (ii) an instrument of acceptance of such appointment, effective as of such date, by such successor Trustee in accordance with this Indenture, the Trustee shall be deemed to have resigned as contemplated in this Section 7.08, the successor Trustee shall be deemed to have been accepted as contemplated in this Indenture, all as of such date, and all other provisions of this Indenture shall be applicable to such resignation, appointment and acceptance.
          Section 7.09If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another person, the resulting, surviving or transferee person without any further act shall be the successor Trustee, subject to Section 7.10 and 7.11.
. Successor Trustee by Merger.
          Section 7.10The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Sections 310(a)(1) and 310(b). The Trustee (or any parent holding company) shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of TIA Section 310(b).
. Eligibility; Disqualification.
          Section 7.11The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
          Section 8.01When (i) the Company causes to be delivered to the Trustee all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced or repaid pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable and the Company deposits with the Trustee cash sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company.
. Discharge of Liability on Securities.
          Section 8.02The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable abandoned property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall have no further liability to the Securityholders with respect to such money or securities for that period commencing after the return thereof.
. Repayment to the Company.
          Section 8.03The Trustee shall hold in trust all money and other consideration deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.01 and shall apply such deposited money and other consideration through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of amounts due on the Securities. Money and other consideration so held in trust is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 7.07.
. Application of Trust Money.
          Section 9.01The Company and the Trustee may modify or amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder to:
. Without Consent of Holders.
          Section 9.02Except as provided below in this Section 9.02 and in Section 9.01, this Indenture or the Securities may be amended, modified or supplemented, and noncompliance in any particular instance with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities may be waived, in each case with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority of the principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding.
. With Consent of Holders.
          Without the written consent or the affirmative vote of each Holder of Securities affected thereby, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not:
          It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
          After an amendment under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment.
          Section 9.03Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
. Compliance With Trust Indenture Act.
          Section 9.04Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, waiver or action becomes effective. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder.
. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions.
          Section 9.05Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any
. Notice of Amendments, Notation on or Exchange of Securities.
supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 9 may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Company as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
          Section 9.06The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
. Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures.
          Section 9.07Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
          Section 10.01(a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Article 10, a Holder of a Security shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding Stated Maturity into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, at the Conversion Rate (the "") in effect on the date of conversion only as follows:
. Conversion Privilege.
Conversion Obligation
          The Company or, at its option, the Conversion Agent on behalf of the Company, shall determine on a daily basis during the time periods specified in Section 10.01(a)(1) or, following a request by a Holder of Securities in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 10.01(a)(2), whether the Securities shall be convertible as a result of the occurrence of an event specified in such Sections and, if the Securities shall be so convertible, the Company or the Conversion Agent, as applicable, shall promptly deliver to the Trustee and Conversion Agent or the Company, as applicable written notice thereof. Whenever the Securities shall become convertible pursuant to this Section 10.01 (as determined in accordance with this Section 10.01), the Company or, at the Company's request, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall promptly notify the Holders of the event triggering such convertibility in the manner provided in Section 11.02, and the Company shall also promptly disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News and publish such information on the Company's web site or through another public medium the Company may use at that time. Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice.
          (c) If and only to the extent a Holder timely elects to convert Securities during the period specified in Section 10.01(b)(2) above and 10% or more of the consideration for the Common Stock in such Change of Control transaction consists of consideration other than common stock traded or scheduled to be traded immediately following such transaction on a U.S. national securities exchange, the Conversion Rate shall be increased by an additional number of shares of Common
Stock (the "") as described below; that if the Stock Price paid in connection with such transaction is greater than $130.00 or less than $43.38 (subject in each case to adjustment as described below), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate. Notwithstanding this Section 10.01(c), if the Company elects to adjust the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.01(d), the provisions of Section 10.01(d)shall apply in lieu of the provisions of this Section 10.01(c). The Company shall notify Holders, at least 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction causing any increase of the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.01(c), whether the Company elects to increase the Conversion Rate as described above or to adjust the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.01(d).
Additional Shares
provided
          The number of Additional Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate as described in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be determined by reference to the table attached as Schedule I hereto, based on the effective date of such Change of Control transaction and the Stock Price paid in connection with such transaction; that if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or such effective date is between two effective dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year. The "" with respect to a Change of Control transaction means the date that a Change of Control becomes effective.
provided
effective date
          With respect to any Securities tendered for conversion to which Additional Shares apply, any shares of Common Stock to be delivered upon conversion of such Securities pursuant to Section 10.02 shall be delivered to Holders who elect to convert their Securities on the later of (i) the fifth Business Day following the effective date and (2) the third Business Day following the final day of the Cash Settlement Period.
          The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table in Schedule I hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Securities is adjusted pursuant to Section 10.04. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.04.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities pursuant to this clause (c) exceed 23.0501 per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.04.
          (d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01(c), in the case of a Change of Control that would lead to the issuance of Additional Shares as set forth in clause (c) above that is also a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Company may, in lieu of increasing the Conversion Rate by Additional Shares as described in Section 10.01(c), elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related Conversion Obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control, Holders of Securities shall be entitled to convert their Securities (subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to conversion set forth in Section 10.01(a) and the settlement provisions of Section 10.03) into Public Acquirer Common Stock. The Conversion Rate following the effective date of such transaction will be a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock equal to the product of the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change of Control multiplied by the average of the quotients obtained, for each Trading Day in the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control (the ""), of:
Valuation Period
          The "" of the Common Stock means, for each Trading Day in the Valuation Period, the value of the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in connection with such Public Acquirer Change of Control, as follows:
Acquisition Value
          "" means an event constituting a corporate transaction that would otherwise obligate the Company to increase the Conversion Rate as described in Section 10.01(c) and the acquirer, the person formed by or surviving the merger or consolidation or any entity that is direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of such person's or acquirer's Voting Stock has a class of common stock traded on a national securities exchange or which shall be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with such Change of Control (the "
Public Acquirer Change of Control
Public
"); that if there is more than one of such entity, the relevant entity shall be such entity with the most direct beneficial ownership to such acquirer's or person's Capital Stock.
Acquirer Common Stock
provided,
          Upon a Public Acquirer Change of Control, if the Company so elects, Holders may convert their Securities (subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to conversion set forth in Section 10.01(a)) and the settlement provisions of Section 10.03 at the adjusted Conversion Rate described above but shall not be entitled to the increased Conversion Rate described in Section 10.01(c). The Company shall notify Holders of its election in its notice to Holders pursuant to Section 10.01(b)(2) above. Holders may convert their Securities upon a Public Acquirer Change of Control during the period specified in Section 10.01(b)(2). In addition, Holders can also, subject to certain conditions, require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Securities as described in Section 3.02.
          After any adjustment of the Conversion Rate in connection with a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Conversion Rate shall be subject to further similar adjustments in the event that any of the events described in Section 10.04 occur thereafter.
          The Company may only make such election if such public acquirer is a corporation organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District Columbia and if the Company and such public acquirer execute a supplemental indenture whereby the public acquirer agrees to comply with the obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture applicable to such public acquirer or any securities thereof that may be issuable upon conversion of the Securities.
          Section 10.02(a) Subject to Section 10.01 and the Company's rights under Section 10.03, each Security shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent into a combination of cash and fully paid and nonassessable shares (calculated to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share) of Common Stock, if any at a rate (the "") equal to, initially, 19.2101 shares of Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in certain instances as provided in Section 10.04 hereof, but shall not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid Interest or Additional Amounts, if any. Upon conversion, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to any accrued and unpaid Interest, including Additional Amounts, if any. Instead, such amount shall be deemed paid by the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution delivered upon conversion of any Security. In addition, no payment or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock with a record date prior to the Conversion Date. The Company shall not issue any fraction of a share of Common Stock in connection with any conversion of Securities, but instead shall, subject to Section 10.03 hereof, make a cash payment (calculated to the nearest cent) equal to
. Conversion Procedure; Conversion Rate; Fractional Shares.
Conversion Rate
such fraction multiplied by the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately prior to the Conversion Date.
          (b) Before any Holder of a Security shall be entitled to convert the same into a combination of cash and Common Stock, if any, such Holder shall (1) in the case of Global Securities, comply with the procedures of the Depositary in effect at that time for converting a beneficial interest in a Global Security, and in the case of Certificated Securities, surrender such Securities, duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, at the office of the Conversion Agent, and (2) give written notice to the Company in the form on the reverse of such Certificated Security (the "") at said office or place that such Holder elects to convert the same and shall state in writing therein the principal amount of Securities to be converted and the name or names (with addresses) in which such Holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock included in the Conversion Settlement Distribution, if any, to be registered.
Conversion Notice
          Before any such conversion, a Holder also shall pay all taxes or duties, if any, as provided in Section 10.06 and any amount payable pursuant to Section 10.02(g).
          If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock, if any, that shall be deliverable upon conversion as part of the Conversion Settlement Distribution shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted thereby) so surrendered.
          (c) A Security shall be deemed to have been converted as of the close of business on the date (the "") that the Holder has complied with Section 10.02(b).
Conversion Date
          (d) The Company shall, on the Conversion Settlement Date, (i) pay the cash component (including cash in lieu of any fraction of a share to which such Holder would otherwise be entitled) of the Conversion Obligation determined pursuant to Section 10.03 to the Holder of a Security surrendered for conversion, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, and (ii) issue, or cause to be issued, and deliver to the Conversion Agent or to such Holder, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock, if any, to which such Holder shall be entitled as part of such Conversion Obligation. The Company shall not be required to deliver certificates for shares of Common Stock while the stock transfer books for such stock or the security register are duly closed for any purpose, but certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered as soon as practicable after the opening of such books or security register, and the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock as part of the applicable Conversion Settlement Distribution upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock, as of the close of business on the applicable Conversion Settlement Date.
          (e) In case any Security shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or upon the written order of the Holder of the Security so surrendered, without charge to such Holder (subject to the provisions of Section 10.06 hereof), a new Security or Securities in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Securities.
          (f) By delivering the combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, together with a cash payment in lieu of any fractional shares to the Conversion Agent or to the Holder or such Holder's nominee or nominees, the Company shall have satisfied in full its Conversion Obligation with respect to such Security, and upon such delivery, accrued and unpaid Interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to such Security shall be deemed to be paid in full rather than canceled, extinguished or forfeited, and such amounts shall no longer accrue.
          (g) If a Securityholder delivers a Conversion Notice after the Interest Record Date for a payment of Interest (including Additional Amounts, if any) but prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, such Securityholder must pay to the Company, at the time such Securityholder surrenders Securities for conversion, an amount equal to the Interest (including Additional Amounts, if any), that has accrued and shall be paid on the related Interest Payment Date. The preceding sentence shall not apply if (1) the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after the close of business on an Interest Record Date but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) to the extent of overdue Interest (and any Additional Amounts), if any overdue Interest (and any Additional Amounts) exists at the time of conversion with respect to the Securities converted or (3) if a Holder converts its Securities after the close of business on the last Interest Record Date and on or prior to the Stated Maturity.
          Section 10.03(a) Upon conversion of Securities, the Company shall deliver to Holders surrendering Securities for conversion, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, a settlement amount (the "") on the Conversion Settlement Date consisting of:
. Payment Upon Conversion.
Conversion Settlement Distribution
          The Company may elect to pay cash to Holders of the Securities surrendered for conversion in lieu of all or a portion of the Net Shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Securities. If the Company does so elect to pay cash, the Company will notify Holders though the Trustee of the dollar amount to be satisfied in cash (either 100% of the Net Share Amount or a fixed dollar amount (the "") will be paid) at any time on or before the date that is two Business Days following the Conversion Date.
Specified Cash Amount
          The Conversion Value, Principal Return, Net Share Amount (if applicable), the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered to a Holder upon conversion, if any, and the aggregate amount of cash payable in connection with any conversion will be determined by the Company on the last Trading Day of the Cash Settlement Period. Settlement (in cash and/or shares) will occur on the third Business Day following the final day of such Cash Settlement Period.
          The "" means the product of (1) the Conversion Rate in effect (plus any Additional Shares as described under Section 10.01(c)) and (2) the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the Trading
Conversion Value
Days during the Cash Settlement Period (such average, the "").
Twenty Day Average Closing Stock Price
          The "" with respect to any Securities converted means the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the second Trading Day after the Conversion Date for those Securities, except in circumstances where conversion occurs within 20 Trading Days leading up to the Stated Maturity, in which case the Cash Settlement Period will be the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the second Trading Day following the Stated Maturity. In addition, if the Company chooses to settle all or any portion of the Net Share Amount in cash in connection with a conversion within 20 Trading Days leading up to the Stated Maturity, the Company will send, on or prior to the Stated Maturity, a single notice to the Trustee of the Net Share Amount to be satisfied in cash.
Cash Settlement Period
          (b) If a Holder tenders Securities for conversion and the Conversion Value is being determined at a time when the Securities are convertible into Exchange Property, the Conversion Value of each Security shall be determined based on the kind and amount of such Exchange Property and the value thereof during the Cash Settlement Period. Settlement of Securities tendered for conversion after the effective date of any transaction giving rise to Exchange Property shall be as set forth above. For the purposes of this Section, the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock shall be deemed to equal the sum of (A) 100% of the value of any Exchange Property consisting of cash received per share of Common Stock, (B) the Last Reported Sale Price of any Exchange Property received per share of Common Stock consisting of securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange and (3) the Fair Market Value of any other Exchange Property received per share, as determined by three independent nationally recognized investment banks selected by the Company for this purpose. Settlement (in cash and/or shares) will occur on the third Business Day following the final day of such Cash Settlement Period.
          Section 10.04The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company in accordance with this Section 10.04:
. Adjustment of Conversion Rate.
          (a) In case the Company shall hereafter pay a dividend or make a distribution to all or substantially all holders of the outstanding Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or other distribution by a fraction,
such increase to become effective immediately after the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 10.04 is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
          (b) In case the Company shall issue rights, warrants or options (other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment or share repurchase plans) to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock entitling them (for a period of up to 60 days from the date of issuance of such rights, warrants or options) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price on the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance by a fraction,
          Such adjustment shall be successively made whenever any such rights, warrants or options are issued, and shall become effective immediately after the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights, warrants or options, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights, warrants or options are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such rights, warrants or
options had not been issued. In determining whether any rights, options or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than Current Market Price of the Common Stock on the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights, warrants or options and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors.
          (c) In case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be subdivided into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the effective date for such subdivision shall be proportionately increased, and conversely, in case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be combined into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the effective date for such combination shall be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the open of business on the effective date for such subdivision or combination.
          (d) Except as set forth in the immediately succeeding paragraph, in case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Company, evidences of its indebtedness or assets (including securities, but excluding any rights, options or warrants referred to in Section 10.04(b) and excluding any dividend or distribution (x) paid exclusively in cash or (y) referred to in Section 10.04(a)) (any of the foregoing hereinafter in this Section 10.04(d) called the ""), then, in each such case, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall be equal to the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution by a fraction,
Distributed Assets
such adjustment to become effective immediately after the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; , , that in the event (1) the then Fair Market Value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than
provided
however
the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Ex-Dividend Date or (2) the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Ex-Dividend Date exceeds the then Fair Market Value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock by less than $1.00, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive at the same time as holders of the Common Stock the amount of Distributed Assets such Holder would have received had such Holder converted each Security into solely shares of Common Stock at the then-current Conversion Rate on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared. If the Board of Directors determines the Fair Market Value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 10.04(d) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the Current Market Price of the Common Stock.
          Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, if any Distributed Assets requiring any adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.04(d) consist of the Capital Stock, or similar equity interests in, a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company that are or in connection with such distribution will be listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the fifteenth Trading Day immediately following the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution shall instead be increased by multiplying the Conversion Rate then in effect by a fraction, (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of such distributed security for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day immediately following the Ex-Dividend Date on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange on which such securities are then listed plus (2) the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the same Trading Day period and (B) the denominator of which is such average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange or market on which the securities are then listed.
          Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock entitling the Holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (""): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 10.04 (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 10.04 shall be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an
Trigger Event
appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under this Section 10.04. If any such right or warrant, including any such existing rights or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and record date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 10.04 was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
          For purposes of this Section 10.04(d) and Section 10.04(a) and (b), any dividend or distribution to which this Section 10.04(d) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of capital stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 10.04(d) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.04(a) and (b) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for "the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution" within the meaning of Section 10.04(a) and the "Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance" within the meaning of Section 10.04(b) and any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution" within the meaning of Section 10.04(a).
          (e) In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock cash (an "") (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the
Extraordinary Cash Dividend
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), then, in such case, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such Extraordinary Cash Dividend by a fraction,
such adjustment to be effective immediately after the open of business on the Ex-Dividend Date; , that in the event (1) the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Ex-Dividend Date or (2) the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on such Ex-Dividend Date exceeds the per share amount of such cash dividend by less than $1.00, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive at the same time as holders of the Common Stock the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder converted each Security into solely shares of Common Stock at the then-current Conversion Rate on such Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if distribution had not been declared.
provided, however
          (f) In case a tender or exchange offer made by the Company or any Subsidiary for all or any portion of the Common Stock shall expire and such tender or exchange offer (as amended upon the expiration thereof) shall require the payment to stockholders of consideration per share of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) that as of the last time (the "") tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended) exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time by a fraction,
Expiration Time
such adjustment to become effective immediately after the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Company is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. In no event shall the Conversion Rate be reduced pursuant to this Section 10.04(f).
          (g) In case of a tender or exchange offer made by a person other than the Company or any Subsidiary for an amount that increases the offeror's ownership of Common Stock to more than 25% of the Common Stock outstanding and shall involve the payment by such person of consideration per share of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive, and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) that as of the last time (the "") tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it shall have been amended) exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Offer Expiration Time, and in which, as of the Offer Expiration Time the Board of Directors is not recommending rejection of the offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the Offer Expiration Time by a fraction,
Offer Expiration Time
such adjustment to become effective immediately after the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the Offer Expiration Time. In the event that such person is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but such person is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the adjustment described in this Section 10.04(g) shall not be made if, as of the Offer Expiration Time, the offering documents with respect to such offer disclose a plan or intention to cause the Company to engage in a consolidation or merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In no event shall the Conversion Rate be reduced pursuant to this Section 10.04(g).
          (h) The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by this Section 10.04, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any U.S. federal income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any stock distribution; , however, that such increase in the Conversion Rate shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities (after taking into account U.S. federal income tax and other consequences of such increase).
provided
          To the extent permitted by applicable law and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed, the Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Securities a notice of the increase at least 15 days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it shall be in effect.
          (i) All calculations under this Article 10 shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth of a share, as the case may be, with one half-cent and 0.005 of a share, respectively,
being rounded upward. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment need be made for:
          (j) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent (if other than the Trustee) an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officer's Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to the Holder of each Security at his last address appearing on the Security register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
          (k) For purposes of this Section 10.04, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.
          Section 10.05. . (a) If any of the following events occur, namely (i) any reclassification or change of
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale
the outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination to which Section 10.04(c) applies or a change in par value) as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, (ii) any consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or combination of the Company with another person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, or (iii) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company to any other person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Exchange Property with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, then the Company or the successor or purchasing person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture) providing for the conversion and settlement of the Securities as set forth in this Indenture. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, the Exchange Property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a corporation other than the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, in such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other corporation and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Securities as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
          (b) The Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities converted following the effective date of any such transaction, shall be calculated (as provided in clause (c) below) based on the Exchange Property (subject to Section 10.01(d)). In the event holders of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the Company shall make adequate provision whereby the Holders of the Securities shall have a reasonable opportunity to determine the form of consideration, consistent with the election rights and restrictions applicable to holders of Common Stock, into which all of the Securities, treated as a single class, shall be convertible from and after the effective date of such transaction (subject to the Company's ability to settle such Conversion Obligation in cash as set forth in Section 10.03). Such determination shall be made pursuant to Section 1.05 and shall be subject to any limitations to which all of the holders of the Common Stock are subject, such as pro-rata reductions applicable to any portion of the consideration payable in such event and shall be conducted in such a manner as to be completed by the date which is the earliest of (a) the deadline for elections to be made by holders of the Common Stock in connection with such transaction, and (b) two Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such event. The Company shall provide notice of the opportunity to determine the form of such
consideration, as well as notice of the determination made by Holders of the Securities by issuing a press release and providing a copy of such notice to the Trustee. The Company shall not become a party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with the preceding.
          (c) The Conversion Obligation in respect of any Securities converted following the effective date of any such transaction shall be computed in the same manner as set forth in Section 10.03(a) (subject to Section 10.01(d)) except that (1) if the Securities become convertible into Exchange Property, the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock shall be deemed to equal the sum of (A) 100% of the value of any Exchange Property consisting of cash received per share of Common Stock, (B) the Last Reported Sale Price of any Exchange Property received per share of Common Stock consisting of securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange and (2) the Fair Market Value of any other Exchange Property received per share, as determined by three independent nationally recognized investment banks selected by the Company for this purpose. Settlement (in cash and/or shares) shall occur on the third Business Day following the final day of such Cash Settlement Period, that any amount of the Conversion Settlement Distribution to be delivered in shares of Common Stock shall be paid in Exchange Property rather than shares of Common Stock. If the Exchange Property includes more than one kind of property, the amount of Exchange Property of each kind to be delivered shall be in the proportion that the value of the Exchange Property (as calculated pursuant to Section 10.03) of such kind bears to the value of all such Exchange Property. If the foregoing calculations would require the Company to deliver a fractional share or unit of Exchange Property to a Holder of Securities being converted, the Company shall deliver cash in lieu of such fractional share or unit based on the value of the Exchange Property.
provided,
          (d) The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder of Securities, at its address appearing on the Security register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
          (e) The above provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, statutory share exchanges, combinations, sales and conveyances.
          If this Section 10.05 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 10.04 shall not apply.
          Section 10.06. . The issue of stock certificates on conversions of Securities shall be made without charge to the converting Holder for any tax in respect of the issue thereof, except for applicable withholding, if any. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any tax or duty which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of stock in any
Taxes on Shares Issued
name other than that of the Holder of any Securities converted, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any such stock certificate unless and until the person or persons requesting the issue thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
          Section 10.07. . (a)The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock for the conversion of the Securities from time to time as such Securities are presented for conversion.
Reservation of Shares, Shares to Be Fully Paid; Compliance with Governmental Requirements
          (b) Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment increasing the Conversion Rate to an amount that would cause the Conversion Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, the Company shall take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
          (c) (i) The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued upon conversion of Securities shall upon issue be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof.
          Section 10.08. . The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Securities to determine the Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Security; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure
Responsibility of Trustee
of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Security for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article 10. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 10.05 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of stock or securities or property (including cash) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Securities after any event referred to in such Section 10.05 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon the Officer's Certificate (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each Holder of Securities at his address appearing on the register provided for in Section 2.03 of this Indenture, as promptly as possible but in any event at least ten (10) days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution of rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the Holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or
winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, consolidation, merger, or statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
          Section 10.10. To the extent that the Company has a rights plan in effect upon conversion of the Securities into Common Stock, a Holder who converts Securities shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock, the rights under the rights plan, unless prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all Holders of Common Stock, shares of the Company's Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in Section 10.04(d) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration or termination of such rights. In lieu of any such adjustment, the Company may amend such applicable shareholder rights plan to provide that upon conversion of the Securities the Holders shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the rights which would have attached to such Common Stock if the rights had not become separated from the Common Stock under such applicable shareholder rights agreement.
Shareholder Rights Plan.
          Section 10.11. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to convert its Security in accordance with this Article 10 and to bring an action for the enforcement of any such right to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Convert.
          Section 11.01. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
          Section 11.02. Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission to the following facsimile numbers:
Notices.
          The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          Any notice or communication given to a Securityholder shall be delivered to the Securityholder, in accordance with the procedures of the Registrar or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Securityholder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
          Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee; , , that no notice to the Trustee shall be deemed to be duly given unless and until the Trustee actually receives same at the address given above.
provided
however
          If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
          Section 11.03. Securityholders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other
Communication by Holders with Other Holders.
Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Section 11.04. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
          
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
          Section 11.05. Each Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.
          Section 11.06. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause.
          Section 11.07. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders. The Registrar, the Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar.
          Section 11.08. A "" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a legal holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a legal
Legal Holidays.
legal holiday
holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Securities, no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the intervening period.
          Section 11.09. THIS INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
          Section 11.10. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others.
          Section 11.11. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
Successors.
          Section 11.12. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
EXHIBIT A
          UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
          TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
          NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY, NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"))(A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER"); (2) AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR
PROVISION), ONLY (A) TO ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC. (THE "ISSUER") OR A SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) UNDER A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (AND WHICH CONTINUES TO BE EFFECTIVE AT THE TIME OF SUCH TRANSFER), (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE UNDER RULE 144A, IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A OR (D) UNDER ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER UNDER CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED ON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER CLAUSE 2(B) ABOVE OR ON ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION);
          ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal amount of One Billion, Two Hundred Million Dollars, on December 15, 2008.
          Interest Rate: 1.22% per year.
          Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2007.
          Interest Record Date: June 1 and December 1 of each year.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side of this Security, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2008 (the "") of St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (including any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, the ""), issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 25, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). The terms of the Security include those stated in the Indenture, those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (""), and those set forth in this Security. This Security is subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Security and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture shall control. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated.
Securities
Company
Indenture
Trustee
TIA
1. .
Interest
          The Securities shall bear Interest on the principal amount thereof at a rate of 1.22% per year. The Company shall pay Additional Amounts, if any, as set forth in Section 4.07 of the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement.
          Interest shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date to Holders at the close of business on the preceding Interest Record Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30 day months.
          The Company shall pay Interest to the Securityholder of record on the Interest Record Date even if the Securityholders elect to require the Company to repurchase, the Securities on a date that is after an Interest Record Date but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date. In that instance, the Company shall pay accrued and unpaid Interest on the Securities being repurchased to, but not including, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date to the Securityholder of record on the Interest Record Date.
          If the principal amount of any Security, or any accrued and unpaid Interest or Additional Amounts, if any, are not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Indenture, upon the date set for payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price pursuant to Section 4 hereof, upon the Stated Maturity of the Securities, upon the Interest Payment Dates or upon the Additional Amounts Payment Dates (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement)), then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear cash interest at the rate of 1.22% per annum,
compounded semi-annually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable in cash on demand but if not so demanded shall be paid quarterly to the Holders on the last day of each quarter.
2. .
Method of Payment
          Except as provided below, the Company shall pay Interest, including Additional Amounts, if any, on (i) Global Securities, to DTC in immediately available funds, (ii) any Certificated Security having an aggregate principal amount of $2,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holder of such Security and (iii) any Certificated Security having an aggregate principal amount of more than $2,000,000, by wire transfer in immediately available funds if requested by the Holder of any such Security as least five business days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date.
          At Stated Maturity, the Company shall pay Interest on Certificated Securities at the Company's office or agency maintained for that purpose, which initially shall be the office or agency of the Trustee located at 60 Livingston Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55107.
          Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall make payments in cash in respect of Fundamental Change Repurchase Prices and at Stated Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money.
3. .
Indenture
          The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $1,000,000,000 (or, to the extent the Initial Purchaser exercises its over-allotment option, $1,200,000,000) aggregate principal amount. The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
4. .
Purchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder
          At the option of any Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase the Securities held by such Holder after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change for a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on those Securities up to, but not including, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Paying Agent a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice containing the
information set forth in the Indenture at any time on or prior to the close of business on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture.
          Holders have the right to withdraw any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
          If cash sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on the Business Day immediately following the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) on and following such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon surrender of such Security.
5. .
Conversion
          Subject to the occurrence of certain events and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, the conditions to conversion of this Security set forth in Section 10.01 thereof), a Holder is entitled, at such Holder's option, to convert the Holder's Security (or any portion of the principal amount thereof that is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000), into cash or a combination of cash and fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of conversion.
          The Company shall notify Holders of any event triggering the right to convert the Securities as specified in the Indenture.
          A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Security, may be converted only if such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
          The initial Conversion Rate is 19.2101 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid Interest or accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any. Upon conversion, no payment shall be made by the Company with respect to accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any. Instead, such amount shall be deemed paid by the cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, delivered upon conversion of any Security. In addition, no payment or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock, except as set forth in the Indenture.
          In addition, following certain corporate transactions as set forth in Section 10.01(b) of the Indenture that constitute a Change of Control, a Holder who elects to convert its Securities in connection with such corporate transaction shall be entitled to receive Additional Shares of Common Stock upon conversion, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in Section 10.01(c) of the Indenture. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, in the case of a Public Acquirer Change of Control, the Company may, in lieu of increasing the Conversion Rate by Additional Shares, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and Conversion Obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change of Control, Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to convert their Securities into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock, as determined pursuant to Section 10.01(d) of the Indenture.
          To surrender a Security for conversion, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the Conversion Notice attached hereto (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, (4) if required by Section 10.02(g) of the Indenture, pay Interest and (5) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required.
          No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any Security. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued upon conversion of such Security, the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture.
          If the Company engages in any reclassification of the Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value) or is party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets, and as a result of any such event the Holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive Exchange Property for their Common Stock, upon conversion of the Securities after the effective date of such event, the Conversion Obligation and the Conversion Settlement Distribution shall be based on the applicable Conversion Rate and the Exchange Property, in each case in accordance with the Indenture. If the transaction also constitutes a Change of Control that would lead to the issuance of Additional Shares as set forth in Section 10.01(c) of the Indenture, if a Holder elects to convert all or a portion of its Securities, such Holder shall receive Additional Shares upon conversion pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the Indenture, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in such Section.
9.
Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent and Registrar.
          Initially, the Trustee shall act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent or Registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Bid Solicitation Agent or Registrar.
10. .
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
          The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased).
11. .
Persons Deemed Owners
          The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes.
12. .
Unclaimed Money or Securities
          The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable abandoned property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
13. .
Amendment; Waiver
          Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities and (ii) certain Events of Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities (i) to add guarantees with respect to the Securities or secure the Securities, (ii) to remove any guarantee added to the Securities pursuant to clause (i), unless such guarantee is required pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of the Indenture, (iii) to conform as necessary, the Indenture and this Security to the "Description
of the Debentures" as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, (iv) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Securities, (v) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company in the Indenture, (vi) to provide for conversion rights of Holders of Securities if any reclassification or change of the Company's Common Stock or any consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets occurs, (vii) provide for the assumption by a successor person (including in connection with any Public Acquirer Changer of Control, if applicable) of the Company's obligations to the Holders of Securities in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale conveyance, transfer, sale or lease as provided under the Indenture, (viii) to change the Conversion Rate in accordance with the Indenture; , however, that any increase in the Conversion Rate other than pursuant to Article 10 shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities (after taking into account U.S. federal income tax and other consequences of such increase), (ix) give effect to the election, if any, by the Company described in Section 10.01(d) of the Indenture upon the occurrence of a Public Acquirer Change of Control, (x) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, (xi) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision in the Indenture which may be inconsistent with any other provision in the Indenture or which is otherwise defective; , , that any such change or modification does not, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company (as evidenced by a Board Resolution) and the Trustee, adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect, (xii) make other changes to the Indenture or forms or terms of the Securities so long as no such change individually or in the aggregate with all other such changes has or will have a material adverse effect on the interests of the Holders of the Securities, (xiii) to establish the form of Securities if issued in definitive form and (xiv) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of the appointment under the Indenture of a successor Trustee.
provided
provided
however
14. .
Defaults and Remedies
          As set forth in the Indenture, subject to certain exceptions, if any Event of Default with respect to Securities shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Securities and any accrued and unpaid Interest and accrued and unpaid Additional Amounts, if any, on all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
15. .
Trustee Dealings with the Company
          Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
16. .
Calculations in Respect of Securities
          The Company or its agents shall be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Securities including, but not limited to, determination of the market prices for the Securities and of the Common Stock and the Additional Amounts, if any, accrued on the Securities. Any calculations made in good faith and without manifest error shall be final and binding on Holders of the Securities. The Company or its agents shall be required to deliver to the Trustee a schedule of its calculations and the Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification.
17. .
No Recourse Against Others
          A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
18. .
Authentication
          This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
19. .
Abbreviations
          Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
20. .
Governing Law
          THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES THEREOF.
21. .
Copy of Indenture
          The Company shall furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to:
          St. Jude Medical, Inc.
22.
Registration Rights.
          The Holders of the Securities are entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 25, 2007, between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the initial purchasers, including the right to receive Additional Amounts upon a Registration Default (as defined in such agreement). The Company shall make payments of Additional Amounts on the Additional Amounts Payment Dates (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement), but otherwise in accordance with the provisions set forth herein for the payment of Interest.
Initial Principal Amount of Global Security: ______________________________ ($_________________).
EXHIBIT B
          NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY, NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")) (A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER"); (2) AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE ON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION), ONLY (A) TO ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC. (THE "ISSUER") OR A SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) UNDER A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (AND WHICH CONTINUES TO BE EFFECTIVE AT THE TIME OF SUCH TRANSFER), (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE UNDER RULE 144A, IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A OR (D) UNDER ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER UNDER CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED ON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER CLAUSE 2(B) ABOVE OR ON ANY TRANSFER OF
THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION);
          ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC., a Minnesota corporation, promises to pay to __________ or registered assigns, the principal amount of _____________________, on December 15, 2008.
          Interest Rate: 1.22% per year.
          Interest Payment Dates: December 15 and June 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2007.
          Interest Record Date: December 1 and June 1 of each year.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side of this Security, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
EXHIBIT C
          In connection with any transfer of any of the Securities within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to the sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") (or any successor provision), the undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby certifies with respect to $____________ principal amount of the above-captioned Securities presented or surrendered on the date hereof (the "") for registration of transfer, or for exchange or conversion where the securities issuable upon such exchange or conversion are to be registered in a name other than that of the undersigned registered owner (each such transaction being a ""), that such transfer complies with the restrictive legend set forth on the face of the Surrendered Securities for the reason checked below:
Securities Act
Surrendered Securities
transfer
          (If the registered owner is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the person signing on behalf of such registered owner must be stated.)
Name:
Address:
Tax I.D.:
EXHIBIT D
[DATE]
To the Holders of the 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2008 (the "Securities") issued by St. Jude Medical, Inc.:
          St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Issuer") by this written notice hereby notifies you, pursuant to Section 3.02 of that certain Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of April 25, 2007, between the Issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, that a Fundamental Change (as such term and other capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein is defined in the Indenture) as described below has occurred. Included herewith is the form of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to be completed by you if you wish to have your Securities repurchased by the Issuer.
1.          Fundamental Change: [Insert brief description of the Fundamental Change and the date of the occurrence thereof].
2.          Date by which Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice must be delivered by you to Paying Agent in order to have your Securities repurchased:
3.          Fundamental Change Repurchase Date:
4.          Fundamental Change Repurchase Price:
5.          Paying Agent and Conversion Agent: [NAME] [ADDRESS]
6.          Conversion Rate: To the extent described in Item 7 below, each $1,000 principal amount of the Securities is convertible into [insert number of shares] shares of the Issuer's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to adjustment.
7.          The Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture and the terms of the Securities only if you withdraw such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. You may be entitled to have your Securities converted into cash or a combination of cash and shares of the Issuer's common stock:
8.          The Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice must be surrendered by you (by effecting book entry transfer of the Securities or delivering Certificated Securities, together with necessary endorsements, as the case may be) to [Name of Paying Agent] at [insert address] in order for you to collect the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
9.          The Fundamental Change Repurchase Price for the Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice and not withdrawn such Notice shall be paid promptly following the later of the Business Day immediately following such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and the date you deliver such Securities to [Name of Paying Agent].
10.          In order to have the Issuer repurchase your Securities, you must deliver the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, duly completed by you with the information required by such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice (as specified in Section 3.02 of the Indenture) and deliver such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to the Paying Agent at any time until 5:00 p.m. (New York City Time) on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
11.          In order to withdraw any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice previously delivered by you to the Paying Agent, you must deliver to the Paying Agent, by 5:00 p.m. on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, a written notice of withdrawal specifying (i) the certificate number, if any, of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, (ii) the principal amount of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and (iii) if you are not withdrawing your Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice for all of your Securities, the principal amount of the
Securities which still remain subject to the original Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
12.          Unless the Issuer defaults in making the payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price owed to you, Interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on your Securities as to which you have delivered a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice shall cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
13.          Cusip Number: [         ]
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
SCHEDULE I
The following table sets forth the Stock Prices and the number of Additional Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities.

Exhibit 4.2
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of April 25, 2007, between St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (together with any successor entity, herein referred to as the ""), and Banc of America Securities LLC, as initial purchaser (the "" or the "") under the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
Company
Initial Purchaser
Representative
          Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2007, between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC (the ""), relating to the initial placement (the "") of the Debentures (as defined below), the Initial Purchaser has agreed to purchase from the Company $1,000,000,000 ($1,200,000,000 if the Initial Purchaser exercises its over-allotment option in full) in aggregate principal amount of 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2008 (the ""). The Debentures will be convertible, subject to the terms thereof, into cash and fully paid, nonassessable shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, if any, of the Company (the ""). The Debentures will be convertible on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the Indenture (as defined herein). To induce the Initial Purchaser to purchase the Debentures, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement pursuant to Section 5(g) of the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Initial Placement
Debentures
Common Stock
          The parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions.
          "": As defined in Section 3(a) hereof.
Additional Amounts
          "": Each June 15 and December 15.
Additional Amounts Payment Date
          "" of any specified person means any other person which, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified person. For purposes of this definition, control of a person means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "": This Registration Rights Agreement.
Agreement
          "": As defined in Section 2(f) hereof.
Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date
          "": An automatic shelf registration statement within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
          "": As defined in Section 6(a)(i) hereof.
Blue Sky Application
          "": The definition of "Business Day" in the Indenture.
Business Day
          "": The date of the first issuance of the Debentures.
Closing Date
          "": The Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Common Stock
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Company
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Debentures
          "": As defined in Section 2(a)(iii) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
          "": As defined in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Effectiveness Target Date
          "": The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "": A Person who owns, beneficially or otherwise, Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holder
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Placement
          "": As defined in Section 6(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder
          "": The Indenture, dated as of April 25, 2007 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), pursuant to which the Debentures are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
Trustee
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchaser
          "": Holders holding over 50% of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures outstanding; provided that, for the purpose of this definition, a holder of shares of Common Stock which constitute Transfer Restricted Securities and were issued upon conversion of the Debentures shall be deemed to hold an aggregate principal amount of the Debentures (in addition to the principal amount of the Debentures held by such holder) equal to the quotient of (x) the number of such shares of Common Stock held by such holder and (y) the conversion rate in effect at the time of such conversion as determined in accordance with the Indenture.
Majority of Holders
          "": The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
          "": A written notice executed by a Holder and delivered to the Company containing substantially the information called for by the Form of Selling Securityholder Notice and Questionnaire attached as Annex A to the Offering Memorandum of the Company relating to the Debentures.
Notice and Questionnaire
          "": On any date, any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date.
Notice Holder
          "": An individual, partnership, corporation, company, unincorporated organization, trust, joint venture or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof, or another entity.
Person
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Purchase Agreement
          "": The prospectus included in a Shelf Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such prospectus.
Prospectus
          "": With respect to any Additional Amounts Payment Date, each Person who is a Holder on the Interest Record Date (as defined in the Indenture) for the Debentures, as set forth in the Indenture, immediately preceding the relevant Additional Amounts Payment Date.
Record Holder
          "": As defined in Section 3(a) hereof.
Registration Default
          "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Representative
          "": The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          "": As defined in Section 2(a)(i) hereof.
Shelf Filing Deadline
          "": As defined in Section 2(a)(i) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "": As defined in Section 2(c) hereof.
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
          "": As defined in Section 4(c) hereof.
Suspension Notice
          "": As defined in Section 4(b)(i) hereof.
Suspension Period
          "": The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, in each case, as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
          "": Each Debenture and each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Debentures until the earliest of:
Transfer Restricted Securities
          "": Any underwriter of Debentures in connection with an offering thereof under the Shelf Registration Statement.
Underwriter
          "": A "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
WKSI
          Unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
          The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities not being able to offer and sell such Securities at any time during the Effectiveness Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or otherwise undertaken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, and (y) permitted by Section 4(b)(ii) hereof.
that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Suspension Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above upon expiration of the Suspension Period in accordance with Section 4(b). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, (i) the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Registration Statement or related Prospectus and (ii) the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline shall be extended by up to twenty (20) Business Days from the expiration of a Suspension Period (and the Company shall incur no obligation to pay Additional Amounts during such extension) if such Suspension Period shall be in effect on the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date.
provided
(each such event referred to in foregoing clauses (i) through (iv), a ""), the Company hereby agrees to pay interest ("") with respect to Debentures that are Transfer Restricted Securities from and including the day following the Registration Default to but excluding the earlier of (1) the day on which the Registration Default has been cured and (2) the date the Shelf Registration Statement is no longer required to be kept effective, accruing at a rate:
Registration Default
Additional Amounts
          All obligations of the Company set forth in this Section 3 that are outstanding with respect to any Debenture that is a Transfer Restricted Security at the time such security ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such Debenture shall have been satisfied in full.
          The Additional Amounts set forth above shall be the exclusive monetary remedy available to the Holders of Debentures that are Transfer Restricted Securities for each Registration Default.
          4. .
Registration Procedures
If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such notice of suspension.
          5. .
Registration Expenses
          The Company shall bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of their officers and employees performing legal, accounting or other duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
          6. .
Indemnification And Contribution
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and a Holder on the other with respect to such offering and such sale shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Debentures purchased under the Purchase Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, on the one hand, bear to the total proceeds received by such Holder with respect to its sale of Transfer Restricted Securities on the other. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or the Holders on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and each Holder agree that it would not be just and equitable if the amount of contribution pursuant to this Section 6(e) were
determined by allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the first sentence of this Section 6(e).
pro rata
           The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the loss, claim, damage or liability, or action in respect thereof, referred to above in this Section 6 shall be deemed to include, for purposes of this Section 6, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending or preparing to defend any such action or claim.
          No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute as provided in this Section 6(e) are several and not joint.
          7. The Company agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company (i) is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make available, upon request of any Holder, to such Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities designated by such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A, and (ii) is subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make all filings required thereby.
Rule 144A.
          8. .
Miscellaneous
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if transmitted by facsimile; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
          Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
April 19, 2007
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 9 West 57 Street New York , NY 10019
th
          As Representative of the several Initial Purchasers
Ladies and Gentlemen:
St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several purchasers named in (the "Initial Purchasers") $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2008 (the "Firm Debentures"). In addition, the Company has granted to the Initial Purchasers an option to purchase up to an additional $200 million in aggregate principal amount of its 1.22% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2008 (the "Optional Debentures"), as provided in Section 2. The Firm Debentures and, if and to the extent such option is exercised, the Optional Debentures are collectively called the "Debentures." Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS") has agreed to act as representative of the several Initial Purchasers (in such capacity, the "Representative") in connection with the offering and sale of the Debentures.
          Introductory.
Schedule A
          To the extent there are no additional Initial Purchasers listed on other than you, the terms "Representative" and "Initial Purchasers" as used herein shall mean you, as Initial Purchaser. The term "Initial Purchasers" shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires.
Schedule A
          The Debentures will be convertible on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the Indenture (as defined below) into cash and shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"), if any. As used herein, "Conversion Shares" means the Common Stock, if any, to be received by the holders of the Debentures upon conversion of the Debentures pursuant to the terms of the Debentures and certain preferred stock purchase rights attached to such Common Stock. The Debentures will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture") to be dated as of April 25, 2007, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
          The Debentures will be offered and sold to the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the "Securities Act") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") thereunder, in reliance upon an exemption therefrom.
          Holders of the Debentures (including the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees) will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated the Closing
Date (as defined in Section 2(b)), between the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company will agree to file or have on file with the Commission a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (the "Registration Statement") covering the resale of the Debentures and the Conversion Shares, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registration Statement to be declared effective, if such registration statement is not an "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), within the time period specified in the Registration Rights Agreement. This Agreement, the Indenture, the Debentures and the Registration Rights Agreement are referred to herein collectively as the "Operative Documents."
          The Company understands that the Initial Purchasers propose to make an offering of the Debentures on the terms and in the manner set forth herein and in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum (as defined below) and the Final Offering Memorandum (as defined below) and agrees that the Initial Purchasers may resell, subject to the conditions set forth herein, all or a portion of the Debentures to purchasers (the "Subsequent Purchasers") at any time after the date of this Agreement. The Debentures are to be offered and sold to or through the Initial Purchasers without being registered with the Commission under the Securities Act in reliance upon exemptions therefrom.
          The Company has prepared an offering memorandum, dated the date hereof, setting forth information concerning the Company, the Debentures, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Common Stock, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers. As used in this Agreement, the term "Offering Memorandum" means, collectively, the preliminary offering memorandum dated as of April 19, 2007 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum") and the offering memorandum dated the date hereof (the "Final Offering Memorandum"), each as then amended or supplemented by the Company. As used herein, each of the terms "Offering Memorandum," "Preliminary Offering Memorandum" and "Final Offering Memorandum" shall include in each case the documents filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as amended and supplemented as of the Applicable Time (as defined in Section 1(f)) and (ii) the term sheet attached as hereto.
Exhibit C
          The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Initial Purchasers as follows:
          S 1. Representations, Warranties and Covenants of the Company.
ECTION
          The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Initial Purchaser as follows:
          (a) . Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers contained in Section 6 and their compliance with the agreements set forth therein, it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Debentures to the Initial Purchasers, the offer, resale and delivery of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers and the conversion of the Debentures into cash and Conversion Shares, if any, in each case in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Indenture, the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, to register the Debentures or the Conversion Shares under the Securities
No Registration
Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act").
          (b) . None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has, directly or through any agent, sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any "security" (as defined in the Securities Act) that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares in a manner that would require registration under the Securities Act of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares.
No Integration
          (c) . No securities of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Securities Act) as the Debentures are listed on any national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act, or quoted on an automated inter-dealer quotation system.
Rule 144A
          (d) The Company has not paid or agreed to pay to any person any compensation for soliciting another person to purchase the Debentures of the Company (except as permitted in this Agreement).
Exclusive Agreement.
          (e) The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Disclosure Package, including the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, and the Final Offering Memorandum in connection with the offer and sale of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers. Each document, if any, filed or to be filed pursuant to the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum complied or will comply when it is filed in all material respects with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. The Preliminary Offering Memorandum, at the date thereof, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At the date of this Agreement, the Closing Date and on any Subsequent Closing Date (as defined in Section 2(c)), the Final Offering Memorandum did not and will not (and any amendment or supplement thereto, at the date thereof, at the Closing Date and on any Subsequent Closing Date, will not) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation or warranty as to information contained in or omitted from the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Final Offering Memorandum in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on the behalf of the Initial Purchasers specifically for inclusion therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished to the Company by or on the behalf of the Initial Purchasers consists of the information set forth on hereto.
Offering Memoranda.
provided
Schedule B
          (f) The Disclosure Package as of 1:14 am (Eastern time) on April 20, 2007 (the "Applicable Time") will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation or warranty as to information contained in or omitted from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on the behalf of the Initial Purchasers specifically for inclusion therein, it being understood
Disclosure Package.
provided
and agreed that the only such information furnished to the Company by or on the behalf of the Initial Purchasers consists of the information set forth on hereto.
Schedule B
          (g) The statements in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the headings "Description of Capital Stock" and "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" and in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2006 (the "2006 10-K") under the caption "Item 3: Legal Proceedings," insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Statements in Offering Memorandum.
          (h) . The Company has delivered to the Representative copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and will deliver the Final Offering Memorandum, each as amended or supplemented, in such quantities and at such places as the Representative has reasonably requested for each of the Initial Purchasers.
Offering Materials Furnished to Initial Purchasers
          (i) . The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the last Subsequent Closing Date (as defined below) and the completion of the Initial Purchasers' distribution of the Debentures, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Debentures other than the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
Distribution of Offering Material by the Company
          (j) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of the Purchase Agreement.
          (k) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, upon the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, will be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and, on the Closing Date, the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
Authorization of the Indenture
          (l) The Debentures have been duly authorized by the Company; when the Debentures are executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement on the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be (assuming due authentication of the Debentures by the Trustee), such Debentures will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Debentures will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
Authorization of the Debentures.
          (m) The Conversion Shares have been duly authorized and reserved and, when issued upon conversion of the Debentures in accordance with the terms of the Debentures and the Indenture, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, and the issuance of any such shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
Authorization of the Conversion Shares.
          (n) . The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company, and, on the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of the Registration Rights Agreement
          (o) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, properties, operations or, to the knowledge of the Company, in the business prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change"); (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have entered into any transactions or agreements, other than in the ordinary course of business or as are disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one entity; and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company or, except for dividends paid to the Company or other subsidiaries, any of its subsidiaries on any class of capital stock or repurchase or redemption by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any class of capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change.
          (p) . Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the financial statements (which term as used in this Agreement includes the related notes thereto) and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, are independent registered public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
Independent Accountants
          (q) . The financial statements of the Company included in the 2006 10-K and incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. The supporting schedules of the Company included in the 2006 10-K and incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum present fairly the information required to be stated therein. Such financial statements and supporting schedules comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X, as promulgated by the Commission ("Regulation S-X"), and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. The financial data set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption "Capitalization" fairly present
Preparation of the Financial Statements
the information set forth therein on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
          (r) The Company does not own or control, directly or indirectly, any corporation, association or other entity other than the subsidiaries listed in documents furnished to you by the Company. The subsidiaries listed in hereto are the only significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X) of the Company (the "Significant Subsidiaries"). Each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing (as applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (a "Material Adverse Effect"). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Schedule C
          (s) The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum). The Common Stock (including the Conversion Shares) conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and have been issued in compliance with federal and state securities laws. None of the outstanding shares of Common Stock were issued in violation of any preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other similar rights to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company. There are no authorized or outstanding options, warrants, preemptive rights, rights of first refusal or other rights to purchase, or equity or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any capital stock of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries other than those described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. The description of the Company's stock option, stock bonus and other stock plans or arrangements, and the options or other rights granted thereunder, set forth or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum constitutes, in all material respects, a fair summary of the information required to be shown with respect to such plans, arrangements, options and rights.
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters.
          (t) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("Default") under its charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or such subsidiary is a party or by which it may be bound (including, without limitation, Getz Bros. Co. Ltd.'s 1.019% Yen-denominated Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2010 or the related Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 1, 2003, the Company's Multi-Year $1.0 billion Credit Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2006, with a consortium of lenders and the Company's Three-Month $700 million Interim Liquidity Facility, dated as of January 25, 2007, with Bank of America, N.A.), or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "Existing Instrument"), or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
          The Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Operative Documents and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Final Offering Memorandum (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph only, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Operative Documents and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Final Offering Memorandum, except (i) with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, as may be required under the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and (ii) such as may be required under applicable securities or blue sky laws of any state or foreign jurisdiction and such as may be required by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD").
          (u) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened (i) against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which if determined adversely to the Company or such
No Material Actions or Proceedings
subsidiary, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
          (v) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened or imminent, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Labor Matters
          (w) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary for the conduct of the Company's business as now conducted or as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect (a) no party has been granted an exclusive license to use any portion of such Intellectual Property owned by the Company; (b) there is no infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property owned by or exclusively licensed to the Company; (c) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property; (d) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; and (e) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others.
Intellectual Property Rights.
          (x) . The Company and each subsidiary possess such valid and current licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such license, certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, etc
          (y) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(q) above (or elsewhere in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases, except such as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering
Title to Properties
Memorandum or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (z) . The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by them in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made appropriate provisions in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(q) above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance
          (aa) . The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Debentures and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company"
          (bb) The Company is subject to and in compliance in all material respects with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Compliance with Reporting Requirements.
          (cc) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are deemed by the Company to be customary for their businesses including, but not limited to, policies covering real and personal property owned or leased by the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries against theft, damage, destruction, acts of vandalism and earthquakes. All such policies are in full force and effect. The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects. Other than in the ordinary course of business or as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause, and (ii) neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any subsidiary will not be able (i) to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (ii) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct its business as now conducted.
Insurance
          (dd) . No subsidiary or joint venture of the Company (other than any joint venture listed in documents furnished to you by the Company) is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's
No Restrictions on Dividends
property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
          (ee) . The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares to facilitate the sale or resale of the Debentures; , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Initial Purchasers, who shall remain solely responsible for such activities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
provided, however
          (ff) There are no material related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person that are not described in the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum.
Related Party Transactions.
          (gg). None of the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D under the Securities Act ("Regulation D")), has, directly or through an agent, engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising in connection with the offering of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares (as those terms are used in Rule 502(c) of Regulation D) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act; the Company has not entered into any contractual arrangement with respect to the distribution of the Debentures or the Conversion Shares except for this Agreement, and the Company will not enter into any such arrangement except for the Registration Rights Agreement and as may be contemplated thereby.
No General Solicitation
          (hh) . The Company maintains (i) effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures
          (ii) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls
          (jj) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA (as defined below),
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith. "FCPA" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
          (kk) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
          (ll) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
          (mm) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation, order, permit or other requirement relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including without limitation, laws and regulations relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum and petroleum products (collectively, "Materials of Environmental Concern"), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Materials of Environmental Concern (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), which violation includes, but is not limited to, noncompliance with any permits or other governmental authorizations required for the operation of the business of the Company or its subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions thereof, nor has the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any written communication, whether from a
Compliance with Environmental Laws
governmental authority, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any Environmental Law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; (ii) there is no claim, action or cause of action filed with a court or governmental authority, no investigation with respect to which the Company has received written notice, and no written notice by any person or entity alleging potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental responses costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, attorneys' fees or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or release into the environment, of any Material of Environmental Concern at any location owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, now or in the past (collectively, "Environmental Claims"), pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) to the best of the Company's knowledge, there are no past, present or anticipated future actions, activities, circumstances, conditions, events or incidents, including, without limitation, the release, emission, discharge, presence or disposal of any Material of Environmental Concern, that reasonably could result in a violation of any Environmental Law, require expenditures to be incurred pursuant to Environmental Law, or form the basis of a potential Environmental Claim against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or against any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iv) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any pending or threatened proceeding under Environmental Law to which a governmental authority is a party and which is reasonably likely to result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
          (nn). None of the following events has occurred or exists: (i) a failure to fulfill the obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to a Plan (as defined below), determined without regard to any waiver of such obligations or extension of any amortization period; (ii) an audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any other federal or state governmental agency or any foreign regulatory agency with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (iii) any breach of any contractual obligation, or any violation of law or applicable qualification standards, with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the following events has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur: (i) a material increase in the aggregate amount of contributions required to be made to all Plans in the current fiscal year of the Company compared to the amount of such contributions made in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (ii) a material increase in the Company's "accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations" (within the meaning of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 106) compared to the amount of such obligations in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (iii) any event or condition giving rise to a liability under Title IV of
ERISA Compliance
ERISA that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (iv) the filing of a claim by one or more employees or former employees of the Company related to their employment that could have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Plan" means a plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA with respect to which any member of the Company may have any liability.
          (oo) There is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Brokers.
          (pp) . There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company, except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
No Outstanding Loans or Other Indebtedness
          (qq) . The Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its directors and officers are, and have been, in material compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
          (rr) Nothing has come to the attention of the Company that has caused the Company to believe that the statistical and market-related data included in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum is not based on or derived from sources which the Company believes are reliable and accurate in all material respects; it being understood, however, that the Company has not conducted any independent investigation of the accuracy thereof.
Statistical and Market Related Data.
          Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Initial Purchaser as to the matters set forth therein.
          S2. .
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Debentures
          (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Initial Purchasers the Firm Debentures upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Initial Purchasers agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective aggregate principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth opposite their names on at a purchase price of 99.600% of the aggregate principal amount thereof.
The Firm Debentures.
Schedule A
          (b) . Delivery of the Firm Debentures to be purchased by the Initial Purchasers and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY, 10017(or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representative) at 9:00 a.m. New York time, on April 25, 2007, or such other
The Closing Date
time and date as may be agreed by the Company and the Representative (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
          (c) . In addition, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Initial Purchasers to purchase, severally and not jointly, up to $200 million in aggregate principal amount of Optional Debentures from the Company at the same price as the purchase price to be paid by the Initial Purchasers for the Firm Debentures. The option granted hereunder may be exercised at any time and from time to time upon notice by the Representative to the Company, which notice may be given at any time within a 13 day period beginning on the date of this Agreement; that such notice shall specify a Subsequent Closing Date (as defined below) that is no later than 12 days after the Closing Date. Such notice shall set forth (i) the amount (which shall be an integral multiple of $1,000 in aggregate principal amount) of Optional Debentures as to which the Initial Purchasers are exercising the option, (ii) the names and denominations in which the Optional Debentures are to be registered and (iii) the time, date and place at which such Debentures will be delivered (which time and date may be simultaneous with, but not earlier than, the Closing Date; and in such case the term "Closing Date" shall refer to the time and date of delivery of certificates for the Firm Debentures and the Optional Debentures). Each time and date of delivery, if subsequent to the Closing Date, is called a "Subsequent Closing Date" and shall be determined by the Representative and shall not be earlier than three nor later than five full business days after delivery of such notice of exercise and any such Subsequent Closing Date shall occur no later than 12 days after the Closing Date. If any Optional Debentures are to be purchased, each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase the number of Optional Debentures (subject to such adjustments to eliminate fractional Debentures as the Representative may determine) that bears the same proportion to the total principal amount of Optional Debentures to be purchased as the aggregate principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth on opposite the name of such Initial Purchaser bears to the total principal amount of Firm Debentures.
The Optional Debentures; the Subsequent Closing Date
provided
Schedule A
          (d) . Payment for the Debentures shall be made at the Closing Date (and, if applicable, at any Subsequent Closing Date) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Debentures
          It is understood that the Representative has been authorized, for its own account and the accounts of the several Initial Purchasers, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Firm Debentures and any Optional Debentures the Initial Purchasers have agreed to purchase. BAS, individually and not as the Representative of the Initial Purchasers, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Debentures to be purchased by any Initial Purchaser whose funds shall not have been received by the Representative by the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, for the account of such Initial Purchaser, but any such payment shall not relieve such Initial Purchaser from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
          (e) . The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representative for the accounts of the several Initial Purchasers the Firm Debentures at the
Delivery of the Debentures
Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The Company shall also deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representative for the accounts of the several Initial Purchasers, the Optional Debentures the Initial Purchasers have agreed to purchase at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. Delivery of the Debentures shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representative shall otherwise instruct. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers.
          S3. .
ECTION
Covenants of the Company
          The Company covenants and agrees with each Initial Purchaser as follows:
          (a) During such period beginning on the Applicable Time and ending on the date which is the earlier of nine months after the Applicable Time or the completion of the resale of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers (as notified by the Initial Purchasers to the Company), prior to amending or supplementing the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the Exchange Act), the Company shall furnish to the Representative for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not print, use or distribute such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representative reasonably objects.
Representative's Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
          (b) . If, at any time prior to the earlier of nine months after the Applicable Time or the completion of the resale of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers (as notified by the Initial Purchasers to the Company), any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum in order that the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the time the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if in the opinion of the Representative or counsel for the Initial Purchasers it is otherwise necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum to comply with law, the Company shall promptly notify the Initial Purchasers and prepare, subject to Section 3(a) hereof, and furnish at its own expense to the Initial Purchasers and to dealers, such amendments or supplements as may be necessary to the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum so that the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing at the time the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, will comply with law.
Amendments and Supplements to the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum and Other Securities Act Matters
          (c) The Company agrees to furnish to the Representative, without charge, until the earlier of nine months after the Applicable Time or the
Copies of the Offering Memorandum.
completion of the resale of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers (as notified by the Initial Purchasers to the Company) as many copies of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and any amendments and supplements thereto as the Representative may reasonably request.
          (d) . The Company shall cooperate with the Representative and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request from time to time, to qualify or register the Debentures for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws or Canadian provincial securities laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representative, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Debentures. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign corporation. The Company will advise the Representative promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Debentures for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to promptly obtain the withdrawal thereof.
Blue Sky Compliance
          (e) . For so long as any of the Debentures are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Company shall provide to any holder of the Debentures or to any prospective purchaser of the Debentures designated by any holder, upon request of such holder or prospective purchaser, information required to be provided by Rule 144A(d)(4) of the Securities Act if, at the time of such request, the Company is not subject to the reporting requirements under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Rule 144A Information
          (f) . Each of the Debentures will bear, to the extent applicable, the legend set forth under the heading entitled "Transfer Restrictions" in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum for the time period and upon the other terms stated therein.
Legends
          (g) . Without the prior written consent of the Representative, the Company will not give to any prospective purchaser of the Debentures or any other person not in its employ any written information concerning the offering of the Debentures other than the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the term sheet attached as Exhibit C hereto, the Final Offering Memorandum or any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior consent of the Representative.
Written Information Concerning the Offering
          (h) . Except following the effectiveness of the Registration Statement (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement), the Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, solicit any offer to buy or offer to sell the Debentures by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Rule 502(c) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
No General Solicitation
          (i) . The Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any "security" (as defined in the Securities Act) in a transaction that could be integrated with the sale of the Debentures in a manner that would require the registration under the Securities Act of the Debentures.
No Integration
          (j) . Prior to the Closing Date, any information provided by the Company to publishers of publicly available databases about the terms of the Securities shall include a statement that the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act and are subject to restrictions under Rule 144A of the Securities Act.
Information to Publishers
          (k) . The Company will cooperate with the Representative and use its best efforts to permit the Debentures to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
          (l) . During the period commencing at the Applicable Time and ending two years after the later of the Closing Date and the last Subsequent Closing Date, if any, the Company will not, and will use its best efforts not to permit any of its "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to, resell any of the Debentures which constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 that have been reacquired by any of them.
Rule 144 Tolling
          (m) . The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Debentures sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in each of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
Use of Proceeds
          (n) . The Company shall engage and maintain, at its expense, a registrar and transfer agent for the Common Stock.
Transfer Agent
          (o) . The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, free of pre-emptive rights, the full number of Conversion Shares.
Available Conversion Shares
          (p) . Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, the Company will not do or authorize any act or thing that would result in an adjustment of the conversion price of the Debentures.
Conversion Price
          (q) . Prior to any issuance of Conversion Shares, the Company will list, subject to notice of issuance, the Conversion Shares on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE").
Listing
          (r) . During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the 30 day following the date of the Final Offering Memorandum, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of BAS (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of BAS), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" or liquidate or decrease a "call equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of, transfer or hedge (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition of), or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act (except for a registration statement on Form
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
th
S-8) in respect of, any shares of Common Stock, options or warrants to acquire shares of the Common Stock or securities exchangeable or exercisable for or convertible into shares of Common Stock (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Debentures and as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement); that the Company may issue shares of its Common Stock or options to purchase its Common Stock, or Common Stock upon exercise of options, pursuant to any stock option, stock bonus, stock purchase or other stock plan or arrangement described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum; , that the Company may issue shares of its Common Stock in the circumstances contemplated by the warrant transaction with the Initial Purchaser or its affiliates described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
provided, however,
provided, further
          (s) . If and to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, the Company will furnish to its stockholders as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year an annual report (including a balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries certified by independent public accountants) and, as soon as practicable after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007), to make available to its stockholders consolidated summary financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries for such quarter in reasonable detail.
Future Reports to Stockholders
          (t) . Unless otherwise publicly available, for the lesser of (i) three years or (ii) so long as the Debentures are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Representative at 9 West 57 Street, New York, NY 10022: Attention: Thomas Morrison: (i) as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, copies of the annual report of the Company containing the balance sheet of the Company as of the close of such fiscal year and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the year then ended and the opinion thereon of the Company's independent registered public accountants; (ii) as soon as practicable after the filing thereof, copies of each proxy statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Report on Form 8-K or other report filed by the Company with the Commission, the NASD or any securities exchange; and (iii) as soon as available, copies of any report or communication of the Company mailed generally to holders of its capital stock.
Future Reports to the Representative
th
          (u) . The Company shall not invest, or otherwise use the proceeds received by the Company from its sale of the Debentures in such a manner as would require the Company or any of its subsidiaries to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.
Investment Limitation
          (v) . Until the date of completion of the resale of the Debentures by the Initial Purchasers (as notified by the Initial Purchasers to the Company), the Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Debentures; , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Initial Purchasers, who shall remain solely responsible for such activities.
No Manipulation of Price
provided, however
          S 4. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Debentures (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all fees and expenses of the Trustee under the Indenture , (iii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Debentures to the Initial Purchasers, (iv) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent registered public accountants and other advisors, (v) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, shipping and distribution of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, (vi) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Initial Purchasers in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Debentures for offer and sale under the state securities laws, blue sky laws or Canadian provincial securities laws, (vii) the fees and expenses associated with listing the Conversion Shares on the NYSE, (viii) all transportation and other expenses incurred by the Company in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Debentures and (ix) all expenses and fees in connection with admitting the Debentures for trading in the PORTAL Market. Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 10 hereof, the Initial Purchasers shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
ECTION
Payment of Expenses.
          S 5. . The obligations of the several Initial Purchasers to purchase and pay for the Debentures as provided herein on the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, any Subsequent Closing Date, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, as of any Subsequent Closing Date as though then made, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Initial Purchasers
          (a) . On the date hereof, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Initial Purchasers, the form of which is attached as .
Accountants' Comfort Letters
Exhibit A
          (b) . For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, any Subsequent Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
          (c) . On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, counsel for the Company, dated such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as , and the favorable opinion of Pamela S. Krop, General Counsel of the Company, dated such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
Exhibit B-1
Exhibit B-2
          (d) . On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, dated such Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to, and addressed to, the Representative, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Debentures, the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Initial Purchasers
          (e) . On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the President or any Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated such Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have reviewed the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum, any amendment or supplement thereto, and this Agreement, to the effect set forth in subsection (b)(iii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
          (f) . On each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
          (g) . The Company and the Initial Purchasers shall have executed and delivered the Registration Rights Agreement (in form and substance satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers), and the Registration Rights Agreement shall be in full force and effect.
Registration Rights Agreement
          (h) . The Debentures shall have been designated PORTAL-eligible securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD.
PORTAL Designation
          (i) On or before each of the Closing Date and any Subsequent Closing Date, the Representative and counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Debentures as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents.
          If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Optional Debentures, at any time prior to the applicable Subsequent Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 8, Section 9, Section 10 and Section 14 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
          S 6.
ECTION
Representations, Warranties and Agreements of Initial Purchasers
          Each of the Initial Purchasers represents and warrants that it is a "qualified institutional buyer", as defined in Rule 144A (a "QIB"). Each Initial Purchaser agrees with the Company that:
          (a) the Debentures and the Conversion Shares have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act in connection with the initial offering of the Debentures;
          (b) it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any Debentures within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (x) as part of their distribution at any time or (y) otherwise until one year after the date of closing of the offering except in accordance with Rule 144A to persons whom it reasonably believes to be QIBs;
          (c) neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has made or will make offers or sales of the Debentures in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D) in the United States, including (i) any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar medium or broadcast over television or radio, or (ii) any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising, or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act;
          (d) in connection with each sale pursuant to Section 6(c), it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of such Debentures is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A;
          (e) any information provided by the Initial Purchasers to publishers of publicly available databases about the terms of the Debentures shall include a statement that the Debentures have not been registered under the Act and are subject to restrictions under Rule 144A; and
          (f) it acknowledges that additional restrictions on the offer and sale of the Debentures and the Conversion Shares are described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
          S 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
ECTION
Effectiveness of this Agreement
          S 8. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative pursuant to Section 5 or Section 12, or if the sale to the Initial Purchasers of the Debentures on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representative and the other Initial Purchasers (or such Initial Purchasers as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representative and the Initial Purchasers in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Debentures, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
ECTION
Reimbursement of Initial Purchasers' Expenses
          S 9.
ECTION
Indemnification.
          (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its directors, officers, employees and agents and each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Initial Purchaser or such controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or the Disclosure Package (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the
Indemnification of the Initial Purchasers
statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and to reimburse each Initial Purchaser, its officers, directors, employees, agents and each such controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by BAS) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Initial Purchaser, its officers, directors, employees, agents or such controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representative expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or the Disclosure Package (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 9(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
          (b) . Each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, or any such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or the Disclosure Package (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or arises out of or is based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, and only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or the Disclosure Package (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representative expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the Initial Purchasers have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or the Disclosure Package (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing) are the statements set forth in hereto. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 9(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Initial Purchaser may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
Schedule B
          (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 9 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
under this Section 9, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any liability other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party; , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 9 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by BAS in the case of Section 9(b)), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
provided, however
          (d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 9 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 9(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into, and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to
Settlements
reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (i) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (ii) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          S 10. If the indemnification provided for in Section 9 is for any reason unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, from the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions or alleged statements or alleged omissions or inaccuracies in the representations and warranties herein which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total discount received by the Initial Purchasers bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Debentures. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact or any such inaccurate or alleged inaccurate representation or warranty relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
ECTION
.
Contribution
          The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9(c), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 9(c) with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for
contribution is to be made under this Section 10; , , that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 9(c) for purposes of indemnification.
provided
however
          The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 10 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 10.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 10, no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission received by such Initial Purchaser in connection with the Debentures purchased by it hereunder. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Initial Purchasers' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 10 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective commitments as set forth opposite their names in . For purposes of this Section 10, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Initial Purchaser and each person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each director, officer, employee and agent of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
           11. If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the several Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Debentures that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Debentures which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures to be purchased on such date, the other Initial Purchasers shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Debentures set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representative with the consent of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, to purchase the Debentures which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, any one or more of the Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Debentures and the aggregate principal amount of Debentures with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representative and the Company for the purchase of such Debentures are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party (other than a defaulting Initial Purchaser) to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 10 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date or a Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than
Section
Default of One or More of the Several Initial Purchasers.
Schedule A
seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Final Offering Memorandum or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
          As used in this Agreement, the term "Initial Purchaser" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Initial Purchaser under this Section 11. Any action taken under this Section 11 shall not relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser from liability in respect of any default of such Initial Purchaser under this Agreement.
           12. On or prior to the Closing Date this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the NYSE, or trading in securities generally on the NYSE shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any federal or New York authority or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States has occurred; or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representative is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Debentures in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities. Any termination pursuant to this Section 12 shall be without liability on the part of (a) the Company to any Initial Purchaser, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Representative and the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Sections 4 and 8 hereof or (b) any Initial Purchaser to the Company.
Section
Termination of this Agreement.
           13. The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Debentures pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Debentures and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Initial Purchaser is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Initial Purchaser has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Initial Purchaser has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Initial Purchaser has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Initial Purchasers and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Initial Purchasers have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency
Section
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Initial Purchasers have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
          This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
           14. The respective indemnities, contribution, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Initial Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of (i) any investigation, or statement as to the result thereof, made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or the Company or any of its or their directors, officers, employees, agents or any controlling person, as the case may be, (ii) acceptance of the Debentures and payment for them hereunder or (iii) any termination of this Agreement.
Section
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
           15. All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section
Notices.
          Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
           16. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Initial Purchasers pursuant to Section 11 hereof, and to the benefit of (i) the Company, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, (ii) the Initial Purchasers, the directors, officers, employees and agents of the Initial Purchasers, and each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and (iii) the respective successors and assigns of any of the above, all as and to the extent provided in this Agreement, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement. The term "successors and assigns" shall not include a purchaser of any of the Debentures from any of the several Initial Purchasers merely because of such purchase.
Section
Successors.
           17. The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section
Partial Unenforceability.
           18.
Section
Governing Law Provisions.
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Governing Law.
           19. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section
General Provisions.
          Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 9 and the contribution provisions of Section 10, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 9 and 10 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (and any amendments and supplements thereto).
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
          The foregoing Purchase Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representative as of the date first above written.
SCHEDULE A
SCHEDULE B
The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh (solely with respect to the first sentence of such paragraph), eighteenth and nineteenth paragraphs under the caption "Plan of Distribution" in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum.
SCHEDULE C
Pacesetter, Inc.
St. Jude Medical S.C., Inc. (a/k/a "US Division")
SJM Puerto Rico BV
Getz Bros. Co. Ltd.
Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc.
St. Jude Medical, Cardiology Division, Inc.
St. Jude Medical, Atrial Fibrillation Division, Inc.
SJM International, Inc.
St. Jude Medical Luxembourg S.a.r.l.
St. Jude Medical Holdings B.V.
St. Jude Medical Enterprise AB
EXHIBIT A
(i)
          
we are independent accountants within the meaning of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder;
(ii)
         
we have performed an audit of the Company's financial statements for the years indicated in their audit report;
(iii)
        
in our opinion the audited financial statements and financial statement schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and reported on by them comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and the related rules and regulations adopted by the Commission;
(iv)
        
we have not audited any financial statements of the Company as of any date or for any period subsequent to December 30, 2006. With respect to the period subsequent to December 30, 2006, we have carried out certain specified procedures (but not an examination in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards) which would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments set forth in such letter; read the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders, directors and
audit committees of the Company and the Subsidiaries; and inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters of the Company and its subsidiaries as to transactions and events subsequent to December 30, 2006, nothing came to our attention which caused us to believe that:
(A)
        
at April [   ], 2007, there were any changes in the long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries or capital stock of the Company or decreases in the shareholders' equity of the Company as compared with the amounts shown on the December 30, 2006 consolidated balance sheet included in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, or for the period from December 31, 2006 through February [   ], 2007 there were any decreases, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year in operating profit or earnings before income taxes or in total or per share amounts of net earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries, except in all instances for changes or decreases set forth in such letter, in which case the letter shall be accompanied by an explanation by the Company as to the significance thereof unless said explanation is not deemed necessary by the Representative; or
(B)
         
at April [   ], 2007, there was any change in the long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries of capital stock of the Company or decreases in the shareholder's equity of the Company as compared with the amounts shown on the December 30, 2006 consolidated balance sheet included in the Disclosure Package and Final Offering Memorandum;
(v)
         
we have performed certain other specified procedures as a result of which we determined that certain information of an accounting, financial or statistical nature (which is limited to accounting, financial or statistical information derived from the general accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries) set forth in the Disclosure Package and Final Offering Memorandum agrees with the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries, excluding any questions of legal interpretation.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B-1
          References to the Final Offering Memorandum in this Exhibit B-1 include any supplements thereto at the Closing Date.
          (i) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota.
          (ii) The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
          (iii) The Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company (including the Common Stock) conform to the descriptions thereof set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption "Description of Capital Stock."
          (iv) The Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
          (v) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Indenture conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
          (vi) The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and is a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as rights to indemnification and contribution thereunder may be limited by applicable law and except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
          (vii) The Debentures have been duly authorized by the Company; when the Debentures are executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement on the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be (assuming due authentication of the Debentures by the Trustee), such Debentures will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the
Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles; and the Debentures will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
          (viii) The Conversion Shares initially issuable upon conversion of the Debentures have been duly authorized and reserved and, when issued upon conversion of the Debentures in accordance with the terms of the Debentures, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
          (ix) Each document filed pursuant to the Exchange Act (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered) and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum complied when so filed as to form in all material respects with the Exchange Act.
          (x) The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the captions "Description of Capital Stock" and "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, have been reviewed by such counsel and fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
          (xi) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Initial Purchasers contained in the Purchase Agreement, neither registration of the Debentures under the Securities Act nor qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act is required for the offer and sale of the Debentures by the Company to the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, it being understood that no opinion is expressed as to any subsequent resale of a Debenture or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Debentures.
          (xii) No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Purchase Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, except as required under the Securities Act and applicable securities or blue sky laws of any state or foreign jurisdiction and from the NASD.
          (xiii) The execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification section of the Purchase Agreement, as to which no opinion need be rendered) (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company; (ii) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company; (iii) will not constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, Getz Bros. Co. Ltd.'s 1.019% Yen-denominated Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2010 or the related Note Purchase Agreement dated
as of May 1, 2003 and the Company's Multi-Year $1.0 billion Credit Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2006, with a consortium of lenders; or (iv) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation, or any judgment, order or decree known to such counsel, applicable to the Company of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties.
          (xiv) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Debentures and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
          In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants for the Company and representatives of the Initial Purchasers at which the contents of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum (other than as specified above), on the basis of the foregoing, nothing has come to their attention which would lead them to believe that (i) the Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) the Final Offering Memorandum, as of its date or at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that such counsel need express no belief as to the financial statements or schedules or other financial or related statistical data derived therefrom, included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum or any amendments or supplements thereto).
          In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely (A) as to matters involving the application of laws of any jurisdiction other than the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the New York Corporation Law or the federal law of the United States, to the extent they deem proper and specified in such opinion, upon the opinion (which shall be dated the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Initial Purchasers, shall expressly state that the Initial Purchasers may rely on such opinion as if it were addressed to them and shall be furnished to the Representative) of other counsel of good standing whom they believe to be reliable and who are satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers; , , that such counsel shall further state that they believe that they and the Initial Purchasers are justified in relying upon such opinion of other counsel, and (B) as to matters of fact, to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.
provided
however
EXHIBIT B-2
          References to the Final Offering Memorandum in this Exhibit B-2 include any supplements thereto, at the Closing Date.
          (i) Each Significant Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing (to the extent applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized, has corporate power and authority to own, or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing (to the extent applicable) in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing (to the extent applicable) would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (ii) The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (iii) All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or, to the best knowledge of such counsel, any pending or threatened claim.
          (iv) All of the outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable.
          (v) No stockholder of the Company or any other person has any preemptive right, right of first refusal or other similar right to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company arising (a) by operation of the charter or by-laws of the Company or the Minnesota Business Corporation Act or (b) to the best knowledge of such counsel, otherwise.
          (vi) The issuance of the Conversion Shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights arising (a) by operation of the charter or by-laws of the Company or the Minnesota Business Corporation Act or (b) to the best knowledge of such counsel, otherwise.
          (vii) The statements in the 2006 10-K under the caption "Item 3: Legal Proceedings," insofar as such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, have been reviewed by such counsel and fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
          (viii) To the best knowledge of such counsel, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened which are required to be disclosed in the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, other than those disclosed therein.
          (ix) The execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification section of the Purchase Agreement, as to which no opinion need be rendered) (a) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of any Significant Subsidiary; (b) will not constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of any of Significant Subsidiary pursuant to, (A) Getz Bros. Co. Ltd.'s 1.019% Yen-denominated Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2010 or the related Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 1, 2003 and the Company's Multi-Year $1.0 billion Credit Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2006, with a consortium of lenders or (B) any other Existing Instrument; or (c) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation or any judgment, order or decree known to such counsel, applicable to any Significant Subsidiary of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over any Significant Subsidiary or any of its properties, except with respect to clauses (b) and (c) only, such breaches, defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          (x) To the best knowledge of such counsel, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary (A) is in violation of (i) its charter or by-laws or (ii) any statute, law, rule, judgment, regulation, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of its or their properties or (B) is in Default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any Existing Instrument, except with respect to clauses (A)(ii) and (B) only, for such violations or Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (xi) The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations or permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such license, certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could have a Material Adverse Effect.
          In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants for the Company and representatives of the Initial Purchasers at which the contents of the Disclosure Package and Final Offering Memorandum and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Disclosure Package
or the Final Offering Memorandum (other than as specified above), on the basis of the foregoing, nothing has come to their attention which would lead them to believe that (i) the Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) the Final Offering Memorandum, as of its date or at the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that such counsel need express no belief as to the financial statements or schedules or other financial or related statistical data derived therefrom, included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum or any amendments or supplements thereto).
          In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely (A) as to matters involving the application of laws of any jurisdiction other than the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the New York Corporation Law or the federal law of the United States, to the extent they deem proper and specified in such opinion, upon the opinion (which shall be dated the Closing Date or any Subsequent Closing Date, as the case may be, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Initial Purchasers, shall expressly state that the Initial Purchasers may rely on such opinion as if it were addressed to them and shall be furnished to the Representative) of other counsel of good standing whom they believe to be reliable and who are satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers; provided, however, that such counsel shall further state that they believe that they and the Initial Purchasers are justified in relying upon such opinion of other counsel, and (B) as to matters of fact, to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.
EXHIBIT C
          This communication is intended for the sole use of the person to whom it is provided by the sender.
          The debentures and any issuer common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may only be offered or sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A or pursuant to another applicable exemption.
          ANY DISCLAIMER OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM.

Exhibit 10.2
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The purpose of this communication (this "") is to set forth the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into on the Trade Date specified below (the "") between Bank of America, N.A. ("") and St. Jude Medical, Inc. (""). This communication constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
BofA
Counterparty
          1. This Confirmation is subject to, and incorporates, the definitions and provisions of the 2000 ISDA Definitions (including the Annex thereto) (the "") and the definitions and provisions of the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "", and together with the 2000 Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""). In the event of any inconsistency between the 2000 Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in Indenture to be dated as of April 25, 2007 between Counterparty and U.S. Bank National Association as trustee (the "") relating to the USD1,200,000,000 principal amount of 1.22% convertible senior debentures due December 15, 2008 (the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. For the avoidance of doubt, references herein to sections of the Indenture are based on the draft of the Indenture most recently reviewed by the parties at the time of execution of this Confirmation. If any relevant sections of the Indenture are changed, added or renumbered following execution of this Confirmation but prior to the execution of the Indenture, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the economic intent of the parties.
2000 Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
Indenture
Convertible Securities
          This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between BofA and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall be subject to an agreement (the "") in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if BofA and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule but with the elections set forth in this Confirmation). For the avoidance of doubt, the Transaction shall be the only transaction under the Agreement.
Agreement
ISDA Form
          All provisions contained in, or incorporated by reference to, the Agreement will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified herein. In the event of any inconsistency between this Confirmation and either the Definitions or the Agreement, this Confirmation shall govern.
          2. The Transaction constitutes a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
               The Office of BofA for the Transaction is: New York
               The Office of Issuer for the Transaction is: Not applicable
          7.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements:
          (a) In addition to the representations and warranties in the Agreement and those contained elsewhere herein, Counterparty represents and warrants to and for the benefit of, and agrees with, BofA as follows:
          (c) . Counterparty hereby agrees that if, in the good faith reasonable judgment of BofA, any Shares (the "") acquired by BofA for the purpose of hedging its obligations pursuant to the Transaction cannot be sold in the public market by BofA without registration under the Securities Act (other than as a result of BofA being an affiliate, as such term is used in the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, of Counterparty), Counterparty shall, at its election: (i) in order to allow BofA to sell the Hedge Shares in a registered offering, make available to BofA an effective registration statement under the Securities Act to cover the resale of such Hedge Shares and (A) enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to BofA, substantially in the form of an underwriting agreement for a registered offering, (B) provide accountant's "comfort" letters in customary form for registered offerings of equity securities, (C) provide disclosure opinions of nationally recognized outside counsel to Counterparty reasonably acceptable to BofA, (D) provide other customary opinions, certificates and closing documents customary in form for registered offerings of equity securities and (E) afford BofA a reasonable opportunity to conduct a "due diligence" investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten offerings of equity securities; , that if BofA, in its sole reasonable discretion, is not satisfied with access to due diligence materials, the results of its due diligence investigation, or the procedures and documentation for the registered offering referred to above, then clause (ii) or clause (iii) of this Section 8(c) shall apply at the election of Counterparty; (ii) in order to allow BofA to sell the Hedge Shares in a private placement, enter into a private placement agreement substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities, in form and substance satisfactory to BofA, including customary representations, covenants, blue sky and other governmental filings and/or registrations, indemnities to BofA, due diligence rights (for BofA or any designated buyer of the Hedge Shares from BofA), opinions and certificates and such other documentation as is customary for private placements agreements, all reasonably acceptable to BofA (in which case, the Calculation Agent shall make any adjustments to the terms of the Transaction that are necessary, in its reasonable judgment, to compensate BofA for any discount from the public market price of the Shares incurred on the sale of Hedge Shares in a private placement); or (iii) purchase the Hedge Shares from BofA at the VWAP Price on such Exchange Business Days, and in the amounts, requested by BofA. "" means, on any Exchange Business Day, the per Share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page STJ <equity> VAP (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such Exchange Business Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one Share on such Exchange Business Day, as determined by the Calculation Agent using a volume-weighted method).
Disposition of Hedge Shares
Hedge Shares
provided, however
VWAP Price
          (d) . The following amendment shall be made to the Equity Definitions:
Amendment to Equity Definitions
          (e) . Counterparty shall, on any day on which Counterparty effects any repurchase of Shares, promptly give BofA a written notice of such repurchase (a "") on such day if, following such repurchase, the Notice Percentage as determined on such day is (i) greater than 6% and (ii) greater by 0.5% than the Notice Percentage included in the immediately preceding Repurchase Notice (or, in the case of the first such Repurchase Notice, greater than the Notice Percentage as of the date hereof). The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, the numerator of which is the Number of Shares and the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day. In the event that Counterparty fails to provide BofA with a Repurchase Notice on the day and in the manner specified in this Section 8(e) then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless BofA, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (BofA and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject under applicable securities laws, including without limitation, Section 16 of the Exchange Act, relating to or arising out of such failure. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or payable by the
Repurchase Notices
Repurchase Notice
Notice Percentage
Indemnified Party
Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of Counterparty. This indemnity shall survive the completion of the Transaction contemplated by this Confirmation and any assignment and delegation of the Transaction made pursuant to this Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of BofA.
          (f) . BofA may transfer or assign its rights and obligations hereunder and under the Agreement, in whole or in part, to (i) any of its affiliates, (ii) any entities sponsored or organized by, or on behalf of or for the benefit of, BofA, or (iii) any third party of substantially equivalent credit quality, in each case without the consent of Counterparty. If at any time at which the Equity Percentage exceeds 8%, BofA, in its discretion, is unable to effect such a transfer or assignment after its commercially reasonable efforts on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to BofA such that the Equity Percentage is reduced to 8% or less, BofA may designate any Scheduled Trading Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of the Transaction, such that the Equity Percentage following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 8%. In the event that BofA so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of the Transaction, a payment or delivery shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement and Section 8(b) of this Confirmation as if (i) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to the Terminated Portion of the Transaction, (ii) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (iii) such portion of the Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the sum of the number of Shares that BofA or any of its affiliates beneficially own (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act) on such day, other than any Shares so owned as a hedge of the Transaction, and the Number of Shares and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day.
Transfer and Assignment
Terminated Portion
Equity Percentage
          (g) . If the Staggered Settlement Equity Percentage as of any Exchange Business Day during the relevant "Cash Settlement Period," as defined in the Indenture, is greater than 4.5%, BofA may, by notice to Counterparty prior to any Settlement Date (a ""), elect to deliver the Shares on two or more dates (each, a "") or at two or more times on the Nominal Settlement Date as follows:
Staggered Settlement
Nominal Settlement Date
Staggered Settlement Date
          The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the sum of the number of Shares that BofA or any of its affiliates beneficially own (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act) on such day, other than any Shares so owned as a hedge of the Transaction, and the Number of Shares hereunder and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day.
Staggered Settlement Equity Percentage
          (h) . Effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure
          (i) . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing BofA to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Counterparty, BofA may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such Shares or other securities and otherwise to perform BofA obligations in respect of the Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. BofA shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
Designation by BofA
          (j) .
Netting and Set-off
          (k) . BofA acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that the preceding sentence shall not apply at any time other than during Counterparty's bankruptcy to any claim arising as a result of a breach by Counterparty of any of its obligations under this Confirmation or the Agreement.
Equity Rights
          (l) . In the event the sale by Counterparty of the Convertible Securities is not consummated with the initial purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for any reason (other than a breach of the Purchase Agreement by BofA or its affiliate) by the close of business in New York on April 25, 2007 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties, which in no event shall be later than May 2, 2007) (April 25, 2007 or such later date being the ""), the Transaction shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transaction and all of the respective rights and obligations of BofA and Counterparty thereunder shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) Counterparty shall pay to BofA an amount in cash equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses relating to the unwinding of BofA's hedging activities in respect of the Transaction (including market losses incurred in reselling any Shares purchased by BofA or its affiliates in connection with such hedging activities). Following such termination, cancellation and payment, each party shall be released and discharged by the other party
Early Unwind
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of either party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transaction either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date. BofA and Counterparty represent and acknowledge to the other that upon an Early Unwind and following the payment referred to above, all obligations with respect to the Transaction shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
          (m) . .
Waiver of Trial by Jury
EACH OF COUNTERPARTY AND BOFA HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE TRANSACTION OR THE ACTIONS OF BOFA OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF
          (n) . .
Governing Law
THIS CONFIRMATION SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS
          Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by BofA) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between BofA and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to John Servidio, Facsimile No. 212-230-8610.
Agreed and Accepted By:
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.

Exhibit 10.3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The purpose of this communication (this "") is to set forth the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into on the Trade Date specified below (the "") between Bank of America, N.A. ("") and St. Jude Medical, Inc. (""). This communication constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
BofA
Issuer
          1. This Confirmation is subject to, and incorporates, the definitions and provisions of the 2000 ISDA Definitions (including the Annex thereto) (the "") and the definitions and provisions of the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "", and together with the 2000 Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""). In the event of any inconsistency between the 2000 Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. For purposes of the Equity Definitions, each reference herein to a Warrant shall be deemed to be a reference to a Call Option or an Option, as context requires.
2000 Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
          This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between BofA and Issuer as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall be subject to an agreement (the "") in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if BofA and Issuer had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule but with the elections set forth in this Confirmation). For the avoidance of doubt, the Transaction shall be the only transaction under the Agreement.
Agreement
ISDA Form
          All provisions contained in, or incorporated by reference to, the Agreement will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified herein. In the event of any inconsistency between this Confirmation and either the Definitions or the Agreement, this Confirmation shall govern.
          2. The Transaction is a Warrant Transaction, which shall be considered a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
          7. :
Representations, Warranties and Agreements
          (a) In addition to the representations and warranties in the Agreement and those contained elsewhere herein, Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of, and agrees with, BofA as follows:
          (c) Each of BofA and Issuer acknowledges that the offer and sale of the Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. Accordingly, BofA represents and warrants to Issuer that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Regulation D as promulgated under the Securities Act, (iii) it is entering into the Transaction for its own account without a view to the distribution or resale thereof and (iv) the assignment, transfer or other disposition of the Transaction has not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and is restricted under this Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
Securities Act
          (d) Each of BofA and Issuer agrees and acknowledges that BofA is a "financial institution," "swap participant" and "financial participant" within the meaning of Sections 101(22), 101(53C) and 101(22A) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the ""). The parties hereto further agree and acknowledge (A) that this Confirmation is (i) a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder is a "settlement payment," as such term is defined in Section 741(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (ii) a "swap agreement," as such term is defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder is a "transfer," as such term is defined in Section 101(54) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (B) that BofA is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other sections, Section 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 546(e), 546(g), 555 and 560 of the Bankruptcy Code.
Bankruptcy Code
          (e) Issuer shall deliver to BofA an opinion of counsel, dated as of the Trade Date and reasonably acceptable to BofA in form and substance, with respect to the matters set forth in Section 3(a) of the Agreement.
          8. :
Other Provisions
          (a) . If, subject to Section 8(l) below, Issuer shall owe BofA any amount pursuant to Sections 12.2, 12.3, 12.6, 12.7 or 12.9 of the Equity Definitions (except in the event of an Insolvency, a Nationalization, a Tender Offer or a Merger Event, in each case, in which the consideration or proceeds to be paid to holders of Shares consists solely of cash) or pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (except in the event of an Event of Default in which Issuer is the Defaulting Party or a Termination Event in which Issuer is the Affected Party, that resulted from an event or events within Issuer's control) (a ""), Issuer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to satisfy any such Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative (as defined below) by giving irrevocable telephonic notice to BofA, confirmed in writing within one Scheduled Trading Day, between the hours of 9:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. New York City time on the Merger Date, Tender Offer Date, Announcement Date or Early Termination Date, as applicable (""). Upon such Notice of Share Termination, the following provisions shall apply on the Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the Merger Date, the Tender Offer Date, Announcement Date or Early Termination Date, as applicable:
Alternative Calculations and Payment on Early Termination and on Certain Extraordinary Events
Payment Obligation
Notice of Share Termination
          (b) . (i) If, in the reasonable judgment of BofA, for any reason, any Shares or any securities of Issuer or its affiliates comprising any Share Termination Delivery Units deliverable to BofA hereunder (any such Shares or securities, "") would not be immediately freely transferable by BofA under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") (other than as a result of BofA being an affiliate, as such term is used in the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, of Issuer), then the provisions set forth in this Section 8(b) shall apply. At the election of Issuer by notice to BofA within one Exchange Business Day after the relevant delivery obligation arises, but in any event at least one Exchange Business Day prior to the date on which such delivery obligation is due, either (A) all Delivered Securities delivered by Issuer to BofA shall be, at the time of such delivery, covered by an effective registration statement of Issuer for immediate resale by BofA (such registration statement and the corresponding prospectus (the "") (including, without limitation, any sections describing the plan of distribution) in form and content commercially reasonably satisfactory to BofA) or (B) Issuer shall deliver additional Delivered Securities so that the value of such Delivered Securities, as determined by the Calculation Agent to reflect an appropriate liquidity discount, equals the value of the number of Delivered Securities that would otherwise be deliverable if such Delivered Securities were freely tradeable (without prospectus delivery) upon receipt by BofA (such value, the ""); that Issuer may not make the election described in this clause (B) if, on the date of its election, it has taken, or caused to be taken, any action that would make unavailable either the exemption pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act for the delivery by Issuer to BofA (or any affiliate designated by BofA) of the Delivered Securities or the exemption pursuant to Section 4(1) or Section 4(3) of the Securities Act for resales of the Delivered Securities by BofA (or any such affiliate of BofA). (For the avoidance of doubt, as used in this paragraph (b) only, the term "Issuer" shall mean the issuer of the relevant securities, as the context shall require.)
Registration/Private Placement Procedures
Delivered Securities
Securities Act
Prospectus
Freely Tradeable Value
provided
          (c) . If Issuer makes the election described in clause (b)(i)(B) of paragraph (b) of this Section 8, then BofA or its affiliate may sell such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, during a period (the "") commencing on the Exchange Business Day following delivery of such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, and ending on the Exchange Business Day on which BofA completes the sale of all such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, or a sufficient number of Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, so that the realized net proceeds of such sales exceed the Freely Tradeable Value (such amount of the Freely Tradeable Value, the ""). If any of such delivered Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units remain after such realized net proceeds exceed the Required Proceeds, BofA shall return such remaining Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units to Issuer. If the Required Proceeds exceed the realized net proceeds from such resale, Issuer shall transfer to BofA by the open of the regular trading session on the Exchange on the Exchange Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period the amount of such excess (the "") in cash or in a number of additional Shares ("") in an amount that, based on the Relevant Price on the last day of the Resale Period (as if such day was the "Valuation Date" for purposes of computing such Relevant Price), has a dollar value equal to the Additional Amount. The Resale Period shall continue to enable the sale of the Make-whole Shares in the manner contemplated by this Section 8(c). This provision shall be applied successively until the Additional Amount is equal to zero, subject to Section 8(e).
Make-whole
Resale Period
Required Proceeds
Additional Amount
Make-whole Shares
          (d) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or this Confirmation, in no event shall BofA be entitled to receive, or shall be deemed to receive, any Shares if, upon such receipt of such Shares, the "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder) of Shares by BofA or any entity that directly or indirectly controls BofA (collectively, "") would be equal to or greater than 9% or more of the outstanding Shares. If any delivery owed to BofA hereunder is not made, in whole or in part, as a result of this provision, Issuer's obligation to make such delivery shall not be extinguished and Issuer shall make such delivery as promptly as practicable after, but in no event later than one Exchange Business Day after, BofA gives notice to Issuer that such delivery would not result in Buyer Group directly or indirectly so beneficially owning in excess of 9% of the outstanding Shares.
Beneficial Ownership
Buyer Group
          (e) . Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall Issuer be required to deliver Shares in connection with the Transaction in excess of 46,104,240 Shares (the ""). Issuer represents and warrants (which shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that the Transaction is outstanding) that the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of authorized but unissued Shares of the Issuer that are not reserved for future issuance in connection with transactions in the Shares (other than the Transaction) on the date of the determination of the Capped Number (such Shares, the ""). In the event Issuer shall not have delivered the full number of Shares otherwise deliverable as a result of this Section 8(e) (the resulting deficit, the ""), Issuer shall be continually obligated to deliver, from time to time until the full number of Deficit Shares have been delivered pursuant to this paragraph, Shares when, and to the extent, that (i) Shares are repurchased, acquired or otherwise received by Issuer or any of its subsidiaries after the Trade Date (whether or not in exchange for cash, fair value or any other consideration), (ii) authorized and unissued Shares reserved for issuance in respect of other transactions prior to such date which prior to the relevant date become no longer so reserved and (iii) Issuer additionally authorizes and unissued Shares that are not reserved for other transactions. Issuer shall immediately notify BofA of the occurrence of any of the foregoing events (including the number of Shares subject to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) and the corresponding number of Shares to be delivered) and promptly deliver such Shares thereafter.
Limitations on Settlement by Issuer
Capped Number
Available Shares
Deficit Shares
          (f) . BofA may postpone any Exercise Date or any other date of valuation or delivery with respect to some or all of the relevant Warrants (in which event the Calculation Agent shall make appropriate adjustments to the Number of Shares to be Delivered with respect to one or more Components), if BofA determines, in its reasonable discretion, that such extension is reasonably necessary or appropriate to preserve BofA's hedging or hedge unwind activity hereunder in light of existing liquidity conditions or to enable BofA to effect purchases of Shares in connection with its hedging, hedge unwind or settlement activity hereunder in a manner that would, if BofA were Issuer or an affiliated purchaser of Issuer, be in compliance with applicable legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements, or with related policies and procedures applicable to BofA.
Right to Extend
          (g) . BofA acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Issuer's bankruptcy. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that the preceding sentence shall not apply at any time other than during Issuer's bankruptcy to any claim arising as a result of a breach by Issuer of any of its obligations under this Confirmation or the Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is not secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Issuer herein under or pursuant to any other agreement.
Equity Rights
          (h) . The following amendments shall be made to the Equity Definitions and to the Agreement:
Amendments to Equity Definitions and the Agreement
          (i) . BofA may transfer or assign its rights and obligations hereunder and under the Agreement, in whole or in part, in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A under the Securities Act without the consent of Issuer (i) to any Affiliate of BofA or (ii) to any "qualified institutional buyer" as such term is defined in Rule 144A(a) under the Securities Act; provided that if the transferee or assignee is any person other than a major financial institution that in the normal course of its business, acts as a dealer in over-the-counter derivatives transactions, then BofA shall continue to serve as Calculation Agent. Any other transfer or assignment of BofA's rights and obligations hereunder or under the Agreement shall require the consent of Issuer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Transfer and Assignment
          (j) . Effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Issuer and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Issuer relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure
          (k) . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing BofA to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Issuer, BofA may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such Shares or other securities and otherwise to perform BofA obligations in respect of the Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. BofA shall be discharged of its obligations to Issuer to the extent of any such performance.
Designation by BofA
          (l) .
Netting and Set-off
          (m) . If BofA reasonably determines that it is advisable to terminate a portion of the Transaction so that BofA's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, an Additional Termination Event shall occur in respect of which (1) Issuer shall be the sole Affected Party and (2) the Transaction shall be the sole Affected Transaction.
Additional Termination Event
          (n) . If, prior to the Effective Date, BofA reasonably determines that it is advisable to cancel the Transaction because of concerns that BofA's related hedging activities could be viewed as not complying with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, the Transaction shall be cancelled and shall not become effective, and neither party shall have any obligation to the other party in respect of the Transaction.
Effectiveness
          (o) .
Waiver of Trial by Jury
EACH OF ISSUER AND BUYER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE TRANSACTION OR THE ACTIONS OF BUYER OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF.
          (p) .
Governing Law
THIS CONFIRMATION SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS.
          Issuer hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by BofA) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between BofA and Issuer with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to John Servidio, Facsimile No. 212-230-8610.
Annex A
For each Component of the Transaction, the Number of Warrants and Expiration Date is set forth below.

Exhibit 10.4
STOCK PURCHASE PLAN ENGAGEMENT AGREEMENT
Stock Purchase Plan Engagement Agreement dated as of April 25, 2007 (this "
Agreement
") between St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "
Company
"), and Banc of America Securities LLC ("
Broker
"), acting as agent for the Company.
WHEREAS
,
the Company desires to establish a trading plan (subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the "
Plan
") that qualifies for the safe harbors provided by Rule 10b-18 ("
Rule 10b-18
") and Rule 10b5-1 ("
Rule 10b5-1
") each under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "
Exchange Act
"); and
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to engage Broker as its exclusive agent to make purchases of shares of the common stock, par value $0.10, of the Company (the "
Securities
") on its behalf under the Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants, agreements, representations and warranties contained in this Agreement and intending to be legally bound, the parties agree as follows:
The Company hereby engages the Broker as the Company's exclusive agent to purchase the Securities during the term of this Agreement. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, Broker hereby accepts such appointment and engagement.
A.
            
Broker is authorized to begin purchasing the Securities as agent for the Company pursuant to the Plan on April 26, 2007, after the execution of this Agreement by both parties, and shall cease purchasing the Securities on the Termination Date (as defined below). The time period beginning on the date purchases are to first be made to the date of the termination of the Plan is referred to herein as the "
Plan Period
".
B.
             
(i)
         
On each Trading Day during the Plan Period on which no Market Disruption Event (as defined below) occurs, Broker shall purchase as agent for the Company and for the account of the Company the lesser of (a) the maximum number of Securities that the Company could purchase under Rule 10b-18 and (b) number of Securities that Broker is able, subject to market conditions and principles of best execution, to purchase as agent for the Company and for the account of the Company on such Trading Day using commercially reasonable means in accordance with the guidelines set forth below (the "
Guidelines
"). The dollar value of the Securities purchased pursuant to this Plan, including commissions, shall not exceed $75,407,693.22 (the "Maximum Aggregate Dollar Amount of Securities").
The Company shall pay to Broker a commission of $0.02 per Security so purchased.
(ii)
           
A "
Trading Day
" is any day during the Plan Period that the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
(the "
Principal Market
") is open for business and the Securities trade regular way on the Principal Market. "
Market Disruption Event
" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a) of the 2002 Equity Derivatives Definitions, as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., and references therein to "Exchange" shall be deemed to be references to the Principal Market.
(iii)
          
Any Securities so purchased shall be purchased under ordinary principles of best execution at the then-prevailing market price. Subject to the terms set forth in this Agreement, Broker shall have full discretion with respect to the execution of all purchases, and the Company acknowledges and agrees that the Company does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to effect such purchases of Securities pursuant to the Plan. The Company acknowledges and agrees that, in acting under this Agreement, Broker will be an independent contractor and will not be acting as the Company's trustee or fiduciary or in any similar capacity.
 
 
 
(iv)
         
In the event that Broker, in its discretion, determines that it is appropriate with regard to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Broker, and including without limitation Rule 10b-18, Rule 10b-5, Regulation 13D-G and Regulation 14E under the Exchange Act, "
Requirements
") for Broker to refrain from purchasing Securities or to purchase fewer than the otherwise applicable Number of Shares to be Purchased on any Trading Day during the Plan Period, then Broker may, in its discretion, elect that the Number of Shares to be Purchased for such Trading Day shall be reduced for such day to an amount determined by Broker in its discretion as appropriate with regard to any Requirements.
(v)
           
Any Number of Shares to be Purchased (and the corresponding purchase price limits or ranges) set forth in the Guidelines shall be adjusted automatically on a proportionate basis to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split or stock dividend with respect to the Securities or any change in capitalization with respect to the Company or any similar event that occurs during the Plan Period, as determined by Broker in good faith and a commercially reasonable manner.
C.
            
Broker may purchase Securities on the Principal Market, any national securities exchange, in the over-the-counter market, on an automated trading system or otherwise.
D.
            
Broker shall use good faith efforts to execute all purchase transactions under this Agreement in accordance with the timing, price and volume restrictions contained in subparagraphs (2), (3) and (4) of Rule 10b-18. Nothing herein shall preclude the purchase by Broker of the Securities for its own account, or the solicitation or execution of purchase or sale orders of the Securities for the account of Broker's clients. Please be advised that, due to the manual process involved in executing and reporting trades on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "
NYSE
"), a trade that is otherwise compliant with the price restrictions of Rule 10b-18 may appear to have been effected outside of the price restriction. Such a condition typically occurs as a result of the delays inherent in the NYSE specialist process of reporting a trade to the Consolidated Tape. In those instances in which there is a delay between the execution and reporting of a trade by the specialist on the NYSE floor, a trade reported to the Consolidated Tape by another market may cause the NYSE trade report to appear as an "uptick", i.e., a trade executed at a price higher than the highest independent bid or last sale price. These conditions are more likely to occur in actively traded stocks.
E.
            
It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement and the Plan comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B) of the Exchange Act, and the parties agree that this Agreement shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) and the Company shall take no action that results in this transaction not so complying with such requirements.
   
F.
             
The Company also acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification or waiver of this Agreement or the Plan, must be effected in accordance with the requirements for the amendment of a "plan" as defined in Rule 10b5-1(c). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification or waiver shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, and no such amendment, modification or waiver shall be made at any time at which the Company is aware of any material nonpublic information concerning the Company or the Securities. Upon any amendment, modification or waiver of this Agreement or the Plan, the Company shall immediately deliver to Broker a letter substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
A.
            
The Company is not entering this Agreement "on the basis of" (as defined in Rule 10b5-1(b) under the Exchange Act) any material nonpublic information concerning the Securities or the business, operations or prospects of the Company.
B.
            
During the Plan Period, the Company agrees not to enter into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the securities covered by the Plan (including, without limitation, with respect to any securities convertible or exchangeable into the Securities) and agrees not to alter or deviate from the terms of the Plan.
C.
            
The Company agrees that, during the Plan Period, neither the Company nor its officers or employees shall, directly or indirectly, communicate any information relating to the Securities or the Company to any employee of Broker or its affiliates involved in trading the Securities in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, who currently include the individuals specified in Annex A hereto.
D.
            
The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not (i) result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any
 
 
2
agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or (ii) conflict with or exceed the authority granted under resolutions of the board of directors of the Company authorizing this Agreement or the consummation of the Plan.
E.
            
The Company has made, and shall use its best efforts during the Plan Period to make in a timely manner, all filings required to be made by it with the Securities and Exchange Commission, any securities exchange or any other regulatory body with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company agrees to immediately notify Broker of any failure or delay in making any such filings when due.
F.
             
Without the prior written consent of Broker, the Company agrees that during the Plan Period (or until the Plan has been terminated, if earlier) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, by means of a cash-settled or other derivative instrument) purchase, offer to purchase, place any bid or limit order that would effect a purchase of, any Securities (or an equivalent interest, including a unit of beneficial interest in a trust or limited partnership or a depository share) or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Securities, except for any Securities tendered to or withheld by the Company to satisfy the exercise price of any stock option or to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon the exercise of any stock option or the vesting of any restricted stock under the Company's stock plans.
G.
            
The Company shall notify Broker prior to the opening of trading in the Securities on any day on which the Company makes, or expects to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Company (other than any such transaction in which the consideration consists solely of cash and there is no valuation period), and shall promptly notify Broker with information relating to actual purchases by the Company during the three calendar months preceding such announcement (unless Broker already has such information relating to actual purchases by the Company). The Company acknowledges that if the Company does not provide such notice and information to Broker, Broker may in it is discretion cease any purchase activity hereunder after such an announcement is made by the Company until such time as the Company provides Broker with the necessary information.
H.
            
The Company shall, on the business day prior to the intended date of such purchase, notify Broker of the intention on the part of any affiliated purchaser, as defined in Rule 10b-18, of the Company to purchase Securities on any day if such purchase is to be effected otherwise than through Broker pursuant to this Agreement and Broker shall refrain from purchasing any Securities hereunder on the day following receipt of such notice. The Company shall be solely responsible for any purchases made by Broker as the Company's agent prior to Broker's receipt of such written notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Broker receives such notice, Broker may nevertheless be entitled to make, and the Company shall be solely responsible for, a purchase hereunder pursuant to a bid made before such notice is received by Broker. The Company shall be solely responsible for notifying Broker of any purchases of Securities by any such affiliated purchaser, and the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Broker for any failure to so notify Broker or any error in any such notification. The Company also acknowledges that purchases of Securities by any such affiliated purchaser (including without limitation any purchases caused or influenced by any action of the Company) may cause the Number of Shares to be Purchased on any Trading Day to be reduced pursuant to Section 2.B(iv) above. The Company acknowledges that any action it takes that causes or influences any purchase of Securities by any affiliated purchaser must comply with the standards set forth in Section 2.F above.
I.
              
The Company agrees that neither the Company nor any of its affiliates or agents shall take any action that would cause Regulation M under the Exchange Act ("
Regulation M
") to be applicable to any purchases of Securities, or any security for which the Securities are a reference security (as defined in Regulation M), by the Company or any of its affiliated purchasers (as defined in Regulation M) during the Plan Period.
J.
             
The Company represents and warrants that it has publicly disclosed on April 19, 2007 its intention to institute a program for the acquisition of the Securities as contemplated hereby.
K.
            
The Company acknowledges and agrees that it is not relying, and has not relied, upon Broker or any affiliate of Broker with respect to the legal, accounting, tax or other implications of this Agreement and that it has conducted its own analyses of the legal, accounting, tax and other implications hereof. The Company further acknowledges and agrees that neither Broker nor any affiliate of Broker has acted as its advisor in any capacity in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company is entering into this Agreement with a full understanding of all of the terms and risks hereof (economic and otherwise), has adequate expertise in financial matters to evaluate those terms and risks and is capable of assuming (financially and otherwise) those risks.
 
 
3
A.
            
This Agreement and the Plan shall terminate on the Termination Date. "
Termination Dat
e" means the earliest to occur of (i) the close of business on May 8, 2007, (ii) the close of business on the date that the Maximum Aggregate Dollar Amount of Securities have been purchased, (iii) any Optional Termination Date (as defined below), (iv) the date on which any Required Termination Notice (as defined below) is received by Broker, (v) the date that the Company or any other person publicly announces a tender or exchange offer with respect to the Securities or a merger, acquisition, reorganization, recapitalization or comparable transaction affecting the Securities as a result of which the Securities are to be exchanged or converted into shares of another company and (vi) the date that Broker becomes aware of the commencement or impending commencement of any proceedings in respect of or triggered by the Company's bankruptcy or insolvency.
B.
            
This Agreement may be terminated by either party hereto on written notice to the other party in accordance with Section 5.D. below (the date of any such termination, an "
Optional Termination Date
").
C.
            
If, at any time during the Plan Period, any legal or regulatory restriction that is applicable to the Company or the Company's affiliates would prohibit any purchase pursuant to the Plan, the Company agrees to give Broker notice of such restriction in accordance with clause (i) of Section 5.D below as soon as practicable (such notice, a "
Required Termination Notice
"). Such notice shall indicate the anticipated duration of the restriction, but shall not include any other information about the nature of the restriction or its applicability to the Company or otherwise communicate any material nonpublic information about the Company or the Securities to Broker.
D.
            
Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, the Company shall be solely responsible for any purchases made by Broker on the Company's behalf prior to Broker's receipt of any notice of termination, and if Broker receives such notice, Broker may nevertheless be entitled to make, and the Company shall be solely responsible for, a purchase hereunder pursuant to a bid made before such notice is received by Broker.
A.
          
Payment for the purchase price of Securities purchased under the Plan for the account of the Company, plus applicable commission, will be delivered to Broker's account, which Broker shall specify in writing to the Company from time to time, on a normal three-day settlement basis. Broker shall give the Company at least 30 days prior notice before changing such account.
B.
            
The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that Broker is a "stockbroker" within the meaning of Section 101(53A) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the "
Bankruptcy Code
"). The parties hereto further agree and acknowledge that this Agreement is a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, and Broker is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 546(e) and 555 of the Bankruptcy Code.
C.
            
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Plan and supercedes any prior agreements or understandings with regard to the Plan.
D.
            
All notices to Broker under this Agreement shall be given to Broker, ATTN: Chip Gibbs, by (i) facsimile at (415) 835-2514
followed by telephonic confirmation at (212) 583-8354 or (ii) by certified mail or overnight courier to the address below:
Banc of America Securities LLC
ATTN: Chip Gibbs
9 W. 57 Street
th
40 Floor
th
New York, NY 10019
All notices to the Company under this Agreement shall be given to Company, ATTN: John C. Heinmiller, in the manner specified by this Agreement by (i) facsimile at (651) 482-8318
followed by telephonic confirmation at (651) 483-2000 or (ii) by certified mail or overnight courier to the address below:
St. Jude Medical, Inc.
One Lillehei Plaza
St. Paul, MN 55117
ATTN: John C. Heinmiller
 
 
4
E.
            
The Company's rights and obligations under this Agreement may not be assigned or delegated without the written consent of Broker, and Broker's rights and obligations under this Agreement may not be assigned or delegated without written consent of the Company.
F.
             
If any provision of this Agreement is or becomes inconsistent with any applicable present or future law, rule or regulation, that provision will be deemed modified or, if necessary, rescinded in order to comply with the relevant law, rule or regulation. All other provisions of this Agreement will continue and remain in full force and effect.
G.
            
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
The parties hereto irrevocably submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts located in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
H.
            
EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
 
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have signed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
ANNEX A
 
The Company agrees that, during the Plan Period, neither the Company nor its officers or employees shall, directly or indirectly, communicate any information relating to the Securities or the Company to any employee of Broker or its affiliates involved in trading the Securities in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, who currently include the following individuals:
Dmitry S. Genkin, Sean W. Groenewald, Soo-Il Lee, Anthony P. Paquette, Marc Mezzadri and John Wall
, and such other employees as may be identified to the Company in writing by Broker from time to time.
 
 
Annex A-1
EXHIBIT A
 
[
Company Letterhead
]
 
[]
Date
Banc of America Securities LLC
9 West 57 Street
th
New York, NY 10019
Attn: Chip Gibbs
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to the Stock Purchase Plan Engagement Agreement (the "
Repurchase Agreement
") dated as of April 25, 2007 between St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "
Company
") and Banc of America Securities LLC ("
Broker
").
In connection with the [amendment/modification/waiver] of the Repurchase Agreement, the Company hereby represents and warrants to Broker that on the date hereof the Company is not aware of any material nonpublic information regarding the Company, and that its decision to [amend/modify/seek a waiver of] the Repurchase Agreement was made in good faith and not as a part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A-1
 


