FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20080225084553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 25, 2008
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(651) 483-2000
 
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 25, 2008, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's common stock. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
St. Jude Medical Announces Share Repurchase Program Authorization
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  Feb. 25, 2008  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE:STJ) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to $250 million of its common stock. Purchases may be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. The manner, timing and amount of any purchases will be determined by the Company's management based on their evaluation of market conditions, stock price and other factors. All purchases will be subject to regulatory considerations. Any shares acquired will be available for general corporate purposes, including offsetting dilution associated with stock option and other equity-based employee benefit plans. The Company had approximately 343 million shares of common stock outstanding as of Dec. 29, 2007.
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical is dedicated to making life better for cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide through excellence in medical device technology and services. The Company has five major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiac surgery, cardiology and neuromodulation. Headquartered in St. Paul, Minn., St. Jude Medical employs approximately 12,000 people worldwide. For more information, please visit .
www.sjm.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, anticipated regulatory approvals and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings, and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Company's filings with the SEC, including those described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2007 (see pages 13-20) and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2007 (see pages 28-29) and November 2, 2007 (see pages 23-24). The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
 
 


