FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20081224093526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM
 
8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION
 
13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report: December 18, 2008
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 0-8672
 
 
One Lillehei Plaza
St. Paul, Minnesota 55117
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(651) 483-2000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 18, 2008, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with a consortium of lenders (the "Lenders") and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Lender, which creates a $360 million unsecured term loan (the "Term Loan") that the Company fully drew and can use for general corporate purposes or to refinance certain other outstanding borrowings of the Company. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Company may make no more than two requests to borrow up to an additional $440 million in the aggregate, which requests must be accepted by the Lenders, on or before March 1, 2009 (the "Term Loan Increases" and, together with the Term Loan, the "Term Loan Facility"). The Company currently has Lender commitments for an additional $155 million in Term Loan Increases ("the January Funding Amount") and anticipates making only one additional Term Loan Increase for such amount in January 2009, unless additional Lender commitments are recieved prior to such time, in which case the January Funding Amount may be increased by such additional Lender committments. The Company is required to make principal payments on the Term Loan Facility in the amount of 5% of the original outstanding borrowings (after giving effect to the Term Loan Increases, if any) in each March, June, September and December until the Term Loan Facility matures and is paid in full on December 18, 2011. Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at (1) the LIBOR rate plus 2.00% or (2) the base rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus 1.00%, in each case subject to adjustment in the event of a change in the Company's credit ratings. Borrowings under the Term Loan currently bear interest at the LIBOR rate plus 2.00%, although the Company may, subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, elect such borrowings to be subject to the base rate plus 1.00%, subject to adjustment in the event of a change in the Company's credit ratings.
 
The Credit Agreement contains various operating and financial covenants that are substantially the same as the covenants under the Company's Multi-Year $1 billion Credit Agreement dated as of December 13, 2006 by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the lenders party thereto. Among other requirements, the Company must have a leverage ratio (defined as the ratio of funded debt to EBITDA (net earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization)) not exceeding 3.0 to 1.0. The Credit Agreement also contains limitations on additional liens or subsidiary indebtedness and limitations on certain acquisitions, mergers, investments and dispositions of assets. In the event that the Company defaults and the default is continuing under the Credit Agreement, the Term Loan Facility may be terminated by the Lenders, and all outstanding principal and interest may become due and payable.
 
Bank of America, N.A. provides investment banking and financial services to the Company from time to time, and other Lenders may also provide investment banking and other services to the Company from time to time.
 
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
As described under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, on December 18, 2008, the Company entered into the Term Loan Facility. As of December 18, 2008, $360 million had been borrowed under the Term Loan Facility. The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On December 21, 2008, the Company announced the completion of its acquisition of Radi Medical Systems AB for $250 million in cash. A copy of the press release, dated December 21, 2008, announcing the acquisition is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 22, 2008, the Company announced the completion of its acquisition of MediGuide Inc. for $283 million in cash. Terms of the transaction provide for the Company to pay $138 million of the purchase price in December 2008, with the balance due in two subsequent payments of $111 million in November 2009 and up to $34 million in April 2010. A copy of the press release, dated December 22, 2008, announcing the acquisition is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
2
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 24, 2008
 
4
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 10.1
Published CUSIP Number: ___________
          This (the "") is entered into as of December 18, 2008, among , a Minnesota corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and , as Administrative Agent and Lender.
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
          The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a term loan credit facility and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein. In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
          1.01 Defined Terms
          "" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests or equity of any Person or otherwise causing any Person, to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary) that the Borrower or a Subsidiary is the surviving entity.
Acquisition
provided
          "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
          "" means the Administrative Agent's address and account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
          "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit E-2
          "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to be Controlled by another Person if such other Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power to vote 20% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors, managing general partners or the equivalent.
Affiliate
Control
Controlling
Controlled
          "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
          "" means, for all Term Loans and any Segments thereof, on any day any such Term Loan or Segment is outstanding, the fluctuating rate of interest (rounded upwards, as necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the most recent Interest Rate Change Date, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on such Interest Rate Change Date) with a term of one month, as adjusted from time to time in the Administrative Agent's sole discretion for changes in deposit insurance requirements and other regulatory costs. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Alternative Base Rate" shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Term Loans or Segments thereof outstanding with a term equivalent to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time), two (2) Business Days prior to such Interest Rate Change Date.
Alternative Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
          "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(vii)
          "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
          "" means each (or either, as the context requires) of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and/or Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and sole book manager.
Arranger
          "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor
Assignee Group
          "" means an Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit E-1
          "" means and includes all reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel and, without duplication, the allocated cost of internal legal services and all expenses and disbursements of internal counsel.
Attorney Costs
          "" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
          "" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto and the accompanying Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Audited Financial Statements
          "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
          "" means Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors.
BAS
          "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate" and (c) the Alternative Base Rate 1.00%. The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
plus
          "" means a Segment that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Segment
          "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
          "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Segments of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Segments, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
          "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Segment, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
          "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
          "" means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
          "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with (or, in the case of , waived by the Person entitled to receive the applicable payment).
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
Section 4.01(b)
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
          "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
          "" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) the amount of depreciation and amortization expense deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income and (iv) other expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period and (b) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
          "" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in through above of Persons other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in through above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(e)
clauses (a)
(f)
          "" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the portion of rent expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
          "" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended for which the Borrower has delivered financial statements pursuant to or .
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
to
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
          "" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains but including extraordinary losses) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
          "" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Shareholders' Equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on that date the Intangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on that date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
minus
          "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect liability of that Person with respect to any Indebtedness, lease, dividend, guaranty, letter of credit or other financial obligation (each a "") of another Person (the ""), whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, or (b) to advance or provide funds (i) for the payment or discharge of any such primary obligation, or (ii) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor in respect of any such primary obligation or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of such primary obligor, or (c) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor thereof to make payment of such primary obligation, or (d) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of any such primary obligation against loss or failure or inability to perform in respect thereof. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Contingent Obligation is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof.
Contingent Obligation
primary obligation
primary obligor
          "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
          "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Affiliate".
Control
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Applicable Rate".
Debt Rating
          "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
          "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means, when used with respect to Obligations, an interest rate equal to (a) the Base Rate (b) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Segments (c) 2% per annum; ,, that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Segment, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Segment 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
          "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of a Term Loan Facility or (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, (c) has been deemed, or has an Affiliate that has been deemed, insolvent or becomes, or has an Affiliate that becomes, the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding, or (d) the Administrative Agent believes in good faith has defaulted in fulfilling its obligations under one or more other syndicated credit facilities.
Defaulting Lender
          "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
          "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
          "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
          "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
          "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
           "" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
           "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Base Rate
           "" means for any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Segment, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
           Where,
          "" means a Segment that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Segment
          "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurodollar funding (currently referred to as "Eurodollar liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Segment shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
          "" means each Subsidiary listed on by reason that such Subsidiary no longer actively conducts any business or operations, including as a holding or investment company, and has been, will be after the Closing Date, or likely will be after the Closing Date, liquidated, and in the event that any such Subsidiary shall after the Closing Date conduct any business or operations, including as a holding or investment company, such that after three consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, such Subsidiary has income equal to or greater than 1% of Consolidated Net Income determined for the same such period, then such Subsidiary shall no longer be an Excluded Subsidiary as of the date of delivery, or date delivery is required (whichever is earlier), of the financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to or with respect to the third such consecutive fiscal quarter and a Responsible Officer shall notify the Administrative Agent thereof.
Excluded Subsidiary
Schedule 1.01
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
          "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any Obligation hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender that has failed to comply with of , and (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any United States withholding tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to the Laws in force at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with of , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to or .
Excluded Taxes
clause (A)
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 10.14
clause (B)
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 3.01(a)(i)
(ii)
          "" means that certain Multi-Year $1,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of December 13, 2006 (as amended, modified, supplemented or amended and restated from time to time) by and among the Borrower, Bank of America as administrative agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto.
Existing 2006 Multi-Year Credit Agreement
          "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
          "" means the letter agreement, originally dated November 14, 2008, as the same may have been supplemented, amended or modified from time to time, by and among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and BAS.
Fee Letter
          "" means any Lender that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction
Foreign Lender
          "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
          "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
          "" means any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, administrative tribunal, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
          "" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person. The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
          "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
          "" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
          For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
          "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
          "" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
          "" has the meaning set forth in .
Independent Auditor
Section 6.01(a)
          "" means assets that are considered to be intangible assets under GAAP, including customer lists, goodwill, computer software, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, patents, franchises, licenses, unamortized deferred charges, unamortized debt discount and capitalized research and development costs.
Intangible Assets
          "" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Segment, (i) the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Segment and the Term Loan Maturity Date; ,, that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Segment exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (ii) each Term Loan Increase Effective Date to the extent required pursuant to ; and (b) as to any Base Rate Segment, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Term Loan Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
Section 2.13(e)
          "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Segment, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Segment is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Segment and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
          "" means Monday of each week; , however, that if such date is not a Business Day, then the "Interest Rate Change Date" shall be the next succeeding Business Day.
Interest Rate Change Date
provided
          "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
          "" has the meaning set forth in .
Investment Transaction
Section 7.04
          "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
          "" means a corporation, partnership, joint venture or other similar legal arrangement (whether created by contract or conducted through a separate legal entity) now or hereafter formed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with another Person in order to conduct a common venture or enterprise with such Person.
Joint Venture
          "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
          "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto, and includes any Lender pursuant to a joinder agreement provided for in .
Lender
Section 2.13
          "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
          "" means this Agreement, each Term Loan Note and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
          "" means a notice of a Borrowing of a Term Loan signed by a Responsible Officer, which shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Exhibit A
          "" means "margin stock" as such term is defined in Regulation T, U or X of the FRB.
Margin Stock
          "" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means the original principal amount of the Term Loan Facility giving effect to any Term Loan Increases pursuant to .
Maximum Term Loan Facility
Section 2.13
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
          "" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" means all debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Term Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
          "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
          "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
          "" means, on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Term Loans after giving effect to the Borrowing of the Term Loan on the Closing Date and on each Term Loan Increase Effective Date permitted by , and any prepayments or repayments of the Term Loan (or any Segment) occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
Section 2.13
          "" means, for any day, the greater of (a) the Federal Funds Rate and (b) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Overnight Rate
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
          "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
          "" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Permitted Liens
Section 7.01
          "" means one or more accounts receivable securitization arrangements which provide for (a) the sale of accounts receivable and any related property by the Borrower and/or any of its Subsidiaries to a financing party or a special purpose vehicle and (b) if a special purpose vehicle is used in any such arrangements, the granting of a security interest in accounts receivables and any related property by such special purpose vehicle and/or the granting of a security interest by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in any such related property; , that the sum of the aggregate net unrecovered investment and the aggregate outstanding advances from the financing parties under such accounts receivable securitization arrangements shall not exceed $150,000,000.
Permitted Receivables Facility
provided
however
          "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
          "" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
          "" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the principal amount of the Term Loan funded by such Lender, including any increases to the Term Loan Facility permitted by , and outstanding at such time, or the principal amount of the Term Loan assigned to such Lender, as applicable. The initial Pro Rata Term Share of each Lender on the Closing Date is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Pro Rata Term Share
Section 2.13
Schedule 2.01
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
          "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
          "" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
          "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Outstanding Amount of the Term Loans; that the Outstanding Amount of the Term Loan held or deemed held by any Defaulting Lender (other than, for purposes of this definition only, any Lender that would be classified as a "Defaulting Lender" (x) under of the definition thereof by virtue of such Lender having an Affiliate that has been deemed insolvent or having an Affiliate that becomes the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding or (y) under of the definition thereof) shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
clause (c)
clause (d)
          "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer or assistant treasurer of the Borrower. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
          "" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other equity interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other equity interest or of any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such capital stock or other equity interest.
Restricted Payment
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
          "" means a portion of any Term Loan (or all thereof) with respect to which a particular interest rate is (or is proposed to be) applicable.
Segment
          "" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
          "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "" or to "" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
          "" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
          "" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in , the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
clause (a)
          "" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
          "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
          "" means the facility described in providing for an advance of the Term Loan to the Borrower by the Lenders on the Closing Date in the original principal amount of $360,000,000, subject to adjustments and/or increases as herein provided.
Term Loan Facility
Section 2.01
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Term Loan Increase
Section 2.13
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Term Loan Increase Effective Date
Section 2.13
          "" means the written notice delivered by a Responsible Officer in connection with the election of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Segment or the conversion of any Segment from one Type to another, which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice
Exhibit B
          "" means (a) December 18, 2011, or (b) such earlier date upon which the Outstanding Amounts under the Term Loan Facility, including all accrued and unpaid interest, are paid in full in accordance with the terms hereof; that, if any such date is not a Business Day, then the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Term Loan Maturity Date
provided
          "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing the portion of the Term Loan made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Term Loan Note
Exhibit C
          "" means, collectively and as the context may require, the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to the Term Loan Facility in accordance with and .
Term Loans
Section 2.01
Section 2.13
          "" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Term Loans.
Total Outstandings
          "" means, with respect to any Segment, its character as a Base Rate Segment or a Eurodollar Rate Segment.
Type
          "" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
          "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
          1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
          (a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
          (b)      (i) The words "," "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.
herein
hereto
hereof
hereunder
          (c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
          (d) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
. (a) All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
          1.03 Accounting Terms
except
          (b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
provided
that
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
          1.04 Rounding
. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to Organization Documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and (b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.
          1.05 References to Agreements and Laws
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
          1.06 Times of Day
.
          2.01 Term Loan
          (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each Lender severally agrees to make an advance of its Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan to the Borrower on the Closing Date, and from the Closing Date to the Term Loan Maturity Date, to convert and continue Segments from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof. The principal amount of each Segment of the Term Loan outstanding hereunder from time to time shall bear interest, and the Term Loan shall be repayable, in each case, as herein provided. No amount of the Term Loan repaid or prepaid by the Borrower may be reborrowed hereunder, and no subsequent advance under the Term Loan Facility shall be allowed after the advance of the Term Loan on the Closing Date except as otherwise permitted by . Segments of the Term Loan may be Base Rate Segments or Eurodollar Rate Segments at the Borrower's election, as provided herein.
Section 2.13
          (b) Each Lender shall, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, make the amount of its Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 12:00 p.m. on the Closing Date. The amount so received by the Administrative Agent shall, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including without limitation the satisfaction of all applicable conditions in , be made available to the Borrower by delivery of the proceeds thereof as shall be directed by a Responsible Officer. The Borrowing of the Term Loan on the Closing Date shall be a Eurodollar Rate Segment with an Interest Period of one month; that, not later than three (3) Business Days prior to the date that is then anticipated to be the Closing Date, the Administrative Agent has received from the Borrower a Loan Notice, with respect thereto, together with the Borrower's written acknowledgement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that the provisions of hereof shall apply to any failure by the Borrower to borrow on the date set forth in such Loan Notice any or all of the amounts specified in such Loan Notice.
Section 4.01
provided
Section 3.05
.
          2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Term Loans
          (a) The initial Term Loan Borrowing on the Closing Date, and any subsequent Term Loan Borrowing pursuant to a Term Loan Increase on a Term Loan Increase Effective Date, if applicable, shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each conversion of Segments from one Type to the other and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of the Borrowing under the Term Loan (including a Borrowing under any Term Loan Increase, if applicable) of Eurodollar Rate Segments, any conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Segments to Base Rate Segments, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing under the Term Loan Facility (including a Borrowing under any Term Loan Increase, if applicable) of Base Rate Segments. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice (for any Term Loan Borrowing) or a Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice (for each subsequent election of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Segment or the conversion of any Segment from one Type to another), in each case as applicable and appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Segments shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice shall specify (i) the requested date of the Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the principal amount of the Term Loans to be borrowed, and (iii) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. Each Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a conversion of Segments from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments, (ii) the requested date of the conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Segments to be converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Segments to which existing Segments are to be converted or continued, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Term Loan in a Loan Notice or a Type of Segment in a Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice, then the applicable Term Loans or Segments shall be made as Base Rate Segments. If the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments, then the applicable Segments shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Segments. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Segments shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Segments. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments in any such Loan Notice or Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
Section 2.02(a)
          (b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Pro Rata Term Share of the applicable Term Loans. Following receipt of a Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the details of any conversion or continuation, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Segments or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Article IV
          (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Segment may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Segment. During the existence of a Default, no Term Loans or Segments, as applicable, may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Segments without the consent of the Required Lenders.
          (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Segments upon determination of such interest rate. The determination of the Eurodollar Rate by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. At any time that Base Rate Segments are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in the Base Rate with regards to the Alternative Base Rate or whether the Alternative Base Rate is used to determine the Base Rate, and of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
          (e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Segments from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Segments as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to the Term Loans and the Segments thereof.
.
          2.03 [Intentionally Omitted]
. The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Term Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (a) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 p.m. noon (i) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Segments, and (ii) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Segments; (b) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Segments shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (c) any prepayment of Base Rate Segments shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Term Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Segments are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Eurodollar Rate Segments. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Term Share of such prepayment. If such notice is given, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Segment shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Term Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Term Shares and in inverse order of required principal payments.
          2.04 Prepayments
provided
Section 3.05
.
          2.05 [Intentionally Omitted]
. The Borrower shall make principal payments on the Term Loans in installments on the dates (or, if such date is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) and in the amounts set forth below:
          2.06 Repayment of Term Loans
.
          2.07 Interest
          (a) Subject to the provisions of below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Segment shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; and (ii) each Base Rate Segment shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
          (b) If any amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Furthermore, if required by the Required Lenders and after written notice to the Borrower, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
          (c) Interest on each Term Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
.
          2.08 Fees
          (a) The Borrower shall pay to BAS and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
          (b) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders, in Dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
. All computations of interest for Base Rate Segments when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Term Loan for the day on which the Term Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Term Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Term Loan or such portion is paid, that any Term Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.
          2.09 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.11(a)
. The Term Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Term Loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Term Loan Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Term Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Term Loan Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Term Loans and payments with respect thereto.
          2.10 Evidence of Debt
.
          2.11 Payments Generally
          (a) All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or set-off. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Pro Rata Term Share (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.
          (b) If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
          (c)      (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Segments (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Segments, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with or , as applicable, and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Segments. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.01
2.02
plus
          (e) The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to fund their respective Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to fund their respective Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to fund its respective Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan or to make its payment under .
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
          (f) Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Term Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Term Loan in any particular place or manner.
          . If, other than as expressly provided elsewhere herein, any Lender shall obtain on account of the Term Loans made by it, any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) in excess of its ratable share (or other share contemplated hereunder) thereof, such Lender shall immediately (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Term Loans made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment in respect of such Term Loans or such participations, as the case may be, pro rata with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from the purchasing Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the purchasing Lender in its discretion), such purchase shall to that extent be rescinded and each other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price paid therefor, together with an amount equal to such paying Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such paying Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered, without further interest thereon. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off, but subject to ) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. The Administrative Agent will keep records (which shall be conclusive and binding in the absence of manifest error) of participations purchased under this Section and will in each case notify the Lenders following any such purchases or repayments. Each Lender that purchases a participation pursuant to this Section shall from and after such purchase have the right to give all notices, requests, demands, directions and other communications under this Agreement with respect to the portion of the Obligations purchased to the same extent as though the purchasing Lender were the original owner of the Obligations purchased.
2.12 Sharing of Payments
provided
however
Section 10.05
Section 10.08
          .
2.13 Increase to Outstanding Amount of the Term Loan
          (a) . Provided there exists no Default, the Borrower may, by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written notice signed by a Responsible Officer (whereupon the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders), request an increase in the Outstanding Amount of the Term Loan Facility by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $440,000,000 (the ""); that (i) each such request for a Term Loan Increase shall be in a principal amount not less than $5,000,000; (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of two (2) such requests; and (iii) all such requests shall be received by Administrative Agent on or prior to March 1, 2009. Any such notice shall set forth the amount of the Term Loan Increase requested by the Borrower. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders). Any increase in the Outstanding Amount of the Term Loan Facility as provided for hereunder shall, upon issuance, be and become part of, and added to, the Term Loan Facility.
Request for Increase
Term Loan Increase
provided
          (b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Outstanding Amount under the Term Loan Facility and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Pro Rata Term Share of such requested increase. Any such Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Outstanding Amount under the Term Loan Facility.
Lender Elections to Term Loan Increase
          (c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of such Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested Term Loan Increase, the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel; , that any such additional Eligible Assignees shall only be entitled to acquire Pro Rata Term Share amounts declined or deemed to be declined by existing Lenders.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
provided
however
          (d) . If the Term Loan Facility is increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Term Loan Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Term Loan Increase Effective Date
          (e) . The effectiveness of the Term Loan Increase shall be conditioned upon satisfaction of each of the conditions set forth in . Interest on each Eurodollar Rate Segment outstanding shall be due and payable in arrears on the Term Loan Increase Effective Date (and the Borrower shall pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Term Loans ratable with any revised Pro Rata Term Shares arising from any nonratable increase under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Term Loan Increase
Section 4.02
Section 3.05
          (f) . The proceeds of the Term Loans pursuant to any Term Loan Increase will be used in accordance with .
Use of Proceeds
Section 6.11
          (g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.12
10.01
          .
3.01 Taxes
          (a) .
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
          (d) Evidence of Payments. Upon request by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this , the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Section 3.01
          (e) .
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
          (f) . Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred and documented by the Administrative Agent or such Lender related thereto, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
plus
          . If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Segments, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Alternative Base Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank eurodollar market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Segments or, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Segments, to convert Base Rate Segments to Eurodollar Rate Segments, or, if such notice relates to the unlawfulness or asserted unlawfulness of charging interest based on the Alternative Base Rate, to make Base Rate Segments as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Segments of such Lender, and all Base Rate Segments as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate, to Base Rate Segments as to which the rate of interest is not determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Segments to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Segments or Base Rate Segments. Notwithstanding the foregoing and despite the illegality for such a Lender to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Segments or Base Rate Segments as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate, that Lender shall remain committed to make Base Rate Segments (as to which the rate of interest is not determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate) and shall be entitled to recover interest at the Base Rate (determined without reference to the Alternative Base Rate). Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
          . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Segment or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Segment, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Segment or in connection with a Base Rate Segment as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Segment does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurodollar Rate Segment, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Segments and Base Rate Segments as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Segments or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Segments (as to which the rate of interest is not determined with reference to the Alternative Base Rate) in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
          .
3.04 Increased Cost and Reduced Return; Capital Adequacy
          (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Segment, or to increase the cost to such Lender, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
          (b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Term Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
          (c) . A certificate of a Lender (i) setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in or of this Section and (ii) stating in reasonable detail the basis for the charges and the method of computation, and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within thirty days after receipt thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this , no Lender shall demand compensation for any increased cost, charge or reduction under and of this Section if it shall not at the time be the general policy of such Lender to demand such compensation in similar circumstances under comparable provisions of other credit agreements, and each Lender shall in good faith endeavor to allocate increased costs or reductions fairly among all of its affected commitments and credit extensions (whether or not it seeks compensation from all affected borrowers).
Certificates for Reimbursement; Reimbursement Limitation
subsection (a)
(b)
Section 3.04
subsection (a)
(b)
          (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than three months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the three-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof, such that the three-month period shall commence upon date of effectiveness of such Change in Law).
Delay in Requests
provided
          . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
          (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Term Loan other than a Base Rate Segment on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Term Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
          (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Term Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Term Loan other than a Base Rate Segment on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
          (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Segment on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.14
including any loss of anticipated profits and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Term Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender for services actually performed in connection with the foregoing.
          For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Segment made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Term Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Segment was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
          
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
          (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Term Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
          (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.14
          . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive repayment of all Obligations hereunder and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
3.07 Survival
Article III
          . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Term Loan on the Closing Date hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Term Loan on Closing Date
          (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or facsimiles (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
          (b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
          (c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all Attorney Costs of the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, such additional amounts of Attorney Costs as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of Attorney Costs incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
plus
provided
          Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
          . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Loan Notice pursuant to a Term Loan Increase is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions of Term Loan Increase
          (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or facsimiles (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer, each dated the Term Loan Increase Effective Date and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders acquiring a Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loan Increase:
          (b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Term Loan Increase Effective Date shall have been paid.
          The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
. The Borrower and each Subsidiary thereof (other than Excluded Subsidiaries):
          5.01 Corporate Existence and Power
          (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation;
          (b) has the power and authority and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to own its assets, carry on its business and to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents;
          (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; and
          (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except, in each case referred to in , , or , to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
clause (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, and do not and will not:
          5.02 Authorization; No Contravention
          (a) contravene the terms of any of the Borrower's Organization Documents;
          (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, any document evidencing any Contractual Obligation to which the Borrower is a party or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority to which the Borrower or its property is subject; or
          (c) violate any Laws.
. No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
          5.03 Governmental Authorization
. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which the Borrower is a party constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
          5.04 Binding Effect
. Except as specifically disclosed in , there are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending, or to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties which:
          5.05 Litigation
Schedule 5.05
          (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or
          (b) if determined adversely to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No injunction, writ, temporary restraining order or any order of any nature has been issued by any court or other Governmental Authority purporting to enjoin or restrain the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or directing that the transactions provided for herein or therein not be consummated as herein or therein provided.
. No Default or Event of Default exists or would result from the incurring of any Obligations by the Borrower. As of the Closing Date, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation in any respect which, individually or together with all such defaults, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or that would, if such default had occurred after the Closing Date, create an Event of Default under .
          5.06 No Default
Section 8.01(e)
.
          5.07 ERISA Compliance
          (a) Except as specifically disclosed in , each Plan is in substantial compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law. Each Plan which is intended to qualify under Section 401 (a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would if not remedied (the time for such remedy not having yet expired) cause the loss of such qualification.
Schedule 5.07
          (b) There are no pending, or to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or other violation of the fiduciary responsibility rule under ERISA with respect to any Plan which could reasonably result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          (c) Except as specifically disclosed in , no ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Pension Plan.
Schedule 5.07
          (d) Except as specifically disclosed in , no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability.
Schedule 5.07
          (e) Except as specifically disclosed in , neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, nor does either reasonably expect to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA).
Schedule 5.07
          (f) Except as specifically disclosed in , the Borrower has not transferred any Unfunded Pension Liability to any Person or to the knowledge of the Borrower otherwise engaged in a transaction subject to Section 4069 of ERISA.
Schedule 5.07
          (g) No trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code maintains or contributes to any Pension Plan or other Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code. During the five year period ending on the Closing Date, neither the Borrower nor any Person under common control with the Borrower (as defined in the preceding sentence) has ever contributed to any multiemployer plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
. The proceeds of the Term Loans are to be used solely for the purposes set forth in and permitted by and . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is generally engaged in the business of purchasing or selling Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
          5.08 Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
Section 6.11
Section 7.07
. The Borrower and each Subsidiary have good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Closing Date, the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) is subject to no Liens, other than Permitted Liens.
          5.09 Title to Properties
. The Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) have filed all federal and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all federal and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect or that is not disclosed on .
          5.10 Taxes
Schedule 5.10
.
          5.11 Financial Condition
          (a) The Audited Financial Statements, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated September 27, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on September 27, 2008 including the notes thereto and the accompanying Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
          (b) Since September 27, 2008, there has been no Material Adverse Effect.
. Except as specifically disclosed in , existing Environmental Laws and existing Environmental Claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          5.12 Environmental Matters
Schedule 5.12
. Neither the Borrower, any Person controlling the Borrower, nor any Subsidiary is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment Companies Act of 1940. The Borrower is not subject to any other federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.
          5.13 Regulated Entities
. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to or bound by any Contractual Obligation, or subject to any restriction in any Organization Document, or any Requirement of Law, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          5.14 No Burdensome Restrictions
. The Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) own or are licensed or otherwise have the right to use all of the patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, contractual franchises, authorizations and other rights that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without any conflict with the rights of any other Person that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) infringes upon any rights held by any other Person such that it could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as specifically disclosed in , no claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or threatened, and no patent, invention, device, application, principle or any statute, law, rule, regulation, standard or code is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, proposed, which, in either case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          5.15 Copyrights, Patents, Trademarks and Licenses, Etc
Schedule 5.05
. As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in part (a) of and has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those permitted by or specifically disclosed in part (b) of .
          5.16 Subsidiaries
Schedule 5.16
Section 7.04(e)
Schedule 5.16
. The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) are insured either with financially sound and reputable insurance companies or under legitimate and responsible self-insurance programs, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) operate.
          5.17 Insurance
. None of the representations or warranties made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the Loan Documents as of the date such representations and warranties are made or deemed made, and none of the statements contained in any exhibit, report, statement or certificate furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with the Loan Documents (including the offering and disclosure materials delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Lenders prior to the Closing Date), contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading as of the time when made or delivered.
          5.18 Full Disclosure
. The true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number of the Borrower is set forth on .
          5.19 Taxpayer Identification Number; Other Identifying Information
Schedule 10.02
          So long as any Term Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , and ) cause each Subsidiary (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
          6.01 Financial Statements
          (a) as soon as available, but not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by the opinion of Ernst & Young LLP or another nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm ("") which report shall state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly the financial position for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a basis consistent with prior years. Such opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or be qualified or limited because of a restricted or limited examination by the Independent Auditor of any material portion of the Borrower or any Subsidiary's records; and
Independent Auditor
          (b) as soon as available, but not later than 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2009, a copy of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter, and certified by a Responsible Officer as fairly presenting, in accordance with GAAP (subject to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments), the financial position and the results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in and above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(b)
clause (a)
(b)
subsections (a)
(b)
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
          6.02 Certificates; Other Information
          (a) (i) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a Compliance Certificate, executed by a Responsible Officer, which certifies, among other things, that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (except as described therein);
subsections 6.01(a)
(b)
          (b) promptly, copies of all financial statements and reports that the Borrower sends to its shareholders, and copies of all financial statements and regular, periodical or special reports (including Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may make to, or file with, the SEC;
          (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Lender, may from time to time reasonably request; and
          (d) promptly, written notice of the Borrower's receipt of a Debt Rating or any change in such Debt Rating.
          Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent upon its request for itself and to each Lender that makes a request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent on behalf of itself or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (., soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent for itself and each of the Lenders. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e
Section 6.02(a)
          The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor".
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.
,
Public Lender
. Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
          6.03 Notices
          (a) of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, and of the occurrence or existence of any event or circumstance that is reasonably likely to become a Default or Event of Default;
          (b) of any matter that has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (insofar as the same has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect) (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
          (c) of any of the following events affecting the Borrower, together with a copy of any notice with respect to such event that may be required to be filed with a Governmental Authority and any notice delivered by a Governmental Authority to the Borrower with respect to such event:
          (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries.
          Each notice under this Section shall be accompanied by a written statement by a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein, and stating what action the Borrower or any affected Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto and at what time. Each notice under shall describe with particularity any and all clauses or provisions of this Agreement or other Loan Document that have been (or reasonably foreseeably will be) breached or violated.
Section 6.03(a)
          6.04 Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc.
          (a) Preserve and maintain in full force and effect its corporate or other existence and good standing under the laws of its state or jurisdiction of formation, except with respect to any Subsidiary that is not the continuing or surviving Person or any Subsidiary that disposes of all of its assets to another Person, in each case in connection with transactions permitted by ;
Section 7.03
          (b) preserve and maintain in full force and effect all governmental rights, privileges, qualifications, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business except in connection with transactions permitted by and sales of assets permitted by ;
Section 7.03
Section 7.02
          (c) use reasonable efforts, in the ordinary course of business, to preserve its business organization and goodwill, except with respect to any Subsidiary that is not the continuing or surviving Person or any Subsidiary that disposes of all of its assets to another Person, in each case in connection with transactions permitted by ; and
Section 7.03
          (d) preserve or renew, to the extent permitted by Law, all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintain, and preserve all its property which is used or useful in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower and each Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) shall use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
          6.05 Maintenance of Property.
Maintain, either with financially sound and reputable independent insurers or under legitimate and responsible self-insurance programs, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons; that at all times during the term of this Agreement the Borrower shall maintain insurance coverage with sound and reputable independent insurers or legitimate and responsible self-insurance programs in substantially the same amounts and covering substantially the same risks as the coverage existing on the Closing Date which is specifically disclosed in . Upon request of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, the Borrower shall furnish the Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies for each Lender, at reasonable intervals (but not more than once per calendar year) a certificate of the Borrower's insurance broker setting forth the nature, extent and such other information as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request regarding the independent insurance maintained by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) in accordance with this .
          6.06 Insurance.
provided
Schedule 6.06
Section 6.06
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all their respective obligations and liabilities with respect to which the failure to make payment could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, including (insofar as the same could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect):
          6.07 Payment of Obligations.
          (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
          (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; and
          (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable.
. Comply, in all material respects with all requirements of Law of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over it or its business (including the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and Regulation U issued by the FRB), except such as may be contested in good faith or as to which a bona fide dispute may exist.
          6.08 Compliance with Laws
. The Borrower shall maintain and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) to maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. The Borrower shall permit, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than Excluded Subsidiaries) to permit, representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent, at the expense of the Borrower for one annual visit and inspection and at the expense of the Administrative Agent for each more frequent visit and inspection, or any Lender, at such Lender's expense, to visit and inspect any of their respective properties, to examine their respective corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any other agent or representative appointed by the Required Lenders may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice at the Borrower's expense.
          6.09 Inspection of Property and Books and Records
provided
however
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, conduct its operations and keep and maintain its property in compliance with all Environmental Laws (except for any noncompliance which has not resulted or is not reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect).
          6.10 Environmental Laws
. Use the proceeds of the Term Loans (a) to refinance outstandings under the Existing 2006 Multi-Year Credit Agreement; (b) to pay fees and expenses relating to such financings; (c) for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document; and (d) for other lawful corporate purposes.
          6.11 Use of Proceeds
          So long as any Term Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to, directly or indirectly:
. Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following (""):
          7.01 Limitation on Liens
Permitted Liens
          (a) any Lien existing on property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary on the Closing Date and set forth in securing Indebtedness outstanding on such date and any renewals or extensions thereof, that the property covered thereby is not increased and, in the case of any Liens on property of any Subsidiary whose Indebtedness is secured thereby, any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby, if applicable, is permitted by ;
Schedule 7.01
provided
Section 7.05
          (b) any Lien created under any Loan Document;
          (c) Liens for taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges which-are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty, or to the extent that non-payment thereof is permitted by , provided that no notice of lien has been filed or recorded under the Code;
Section 6.07
          (d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmen's, repairmen's or other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, which proceedings have the effect of preventing the forfeiture or sale of the property subject thereto;
          (e) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
          (f) Liens on the property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, (ii) contingent obligations on surety and appeal bonds, and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature; in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business, provided all such Liens in the aggregate would not (even if enforced) cause a Material Adverse Effect;
          (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
          (h) Liens on assets of companies which become Subsidiaries after the date of this Agreement, ,, that such Liens existed at the time the respective companies became Subsidiaries and were not created in anticipation thereof, and any renewals or extensions thereof, that the property covered thereby is not increased and, in the case of any Liens on property of any Subsidiary whose Indebtedness is secured thereby, any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby, if applicable, is permitted by ;
provided
however
provided
Section 7.05
          (i) purchase money security interests on any property acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business, securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost of acquiring such property; that (i) any such Lien attaches to such property concurrently with or within 20 days after the acquisition thereof, (ii) such Lien attaches solely to the property so acquired in such transaction, (iii) the principal amount of the debt secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of such property, and (iv) the principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by any and all such purchase money security interests shall not at any time exceed $75,000,000;
provided
          (j) Liens securing obligations in respect of capital leases on assets subject to such leases, that such capital leases are otherwise permitted hereunder;
provided
          (k) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution; that (i) such deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Borrower in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the FRB, and (ii) such deposit account is not intended by either of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution;
provided
          (l) other Liens on property, that the sum of the aggregate Indebtedness secured by such Liens (exclusive of Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by through , and hereof) shall not exceed an amount equal to 5% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth as shown on the Borrower's consolidated balance sheet for its most recent prior fiscal quarter;
provided
clauses (a)
(k)
(m)
(n)
          (m) Liens on accounts receivable and related property of any Subsidiary of the Borrower and/or on any such related property of the Borrower, in each case subject to a Permitted Receivables Facility and created in connection with such Permitted Receivables Facility;
          (n) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; , such Liens were in existence prior to such acquisition and were not created in contemplation of such acquisition; and
provided
          (o) Liens securing reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit arising by operation of law under Section 5-118(a) of the Uniform Commercial Code.
. Sell, assign, lease, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of (whether in one or a series of transactions) any property (including accounts and notes receivable, with or without recourse) or enter into any agreement to do any of the foregoing, except:
          7.02 Disposition of Assets
          (a) dispositions of inventory, or used, worn-out or surplus equipment, all in the ordinary course of business;
          (b) the sale of equipment to the extent that such equipment is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement equipment, or the proceeds of such sale are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement equipment;
          (c) other dispositions of property during the term of this Agreement whose net book value in the aggregate shall not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reflected on the balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for their most recent prior fiscal quarter; and
          (d) the sale of notes or account receivables (or interests therein) pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of a Permitted Receivables Facility by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
. Merge, consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except:
          7.03 Consolidations and Mergers
          (a) any Subsidiary may merge with the Borrower, provided that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or with any one or more Subsidiaries;
          (b) any Subsidiary may sell all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary or as otherwise permitted by ; and
Section 7.02
          (c) any Subsidiary may merge with a third party in order to consummate an Acquisition permitted by , so long as such entity upon the consummation of the merger is a Subsidiary.
Section 7.04
. Purchase or acquire, or make any commitment therefor, any capital stock, equity interest, or any obligations or other securities of, or any interest in, any Person, or make or commit to make any Acquisitions, or make or commit to make any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to or any other investment in, any Person including any Affiliate of the Borrower, except for:
          7.04 Loans and Investments
          (a) investments in cash equivalents and short term marketable securities in accordance with the written investment policy approved from time to time by the Borrower's board of directors, a current copy of which is set forth as attached hereto and , that the Borrower shall provide a copy of such policy to any Lender upon written request given to the Administrative Agent from time to time;
Schedule 7.04(a)
provided
further
          (b) extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable arising from the sale or lease of goods or services in the ordinary course of business;
          (c) extensions of credit by the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries or by any of its Subsidiaries to another of its Subsidiaries;
          (d) Acquisitions, including investments in a Subsidiary or a third party incurred in order to consummate Acquisitions, that (i) such Acquisitions are undertaken in accordance with all applicable Laws; and (ii) the prior, effective written consent or approval to such Acquisition of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the acquiree or any owner of any assets being acquired is obtained if such consent or approval is required to authorize the same;
provided
          (e) minority equity investments or venture capital investments, that such investments are within the healthcare industry;
provided
          (f) loans or other advances made during the term of this Agreement by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which in the aggregate do not exceed 1% of the total assets of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reflected on the balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the most recent fiscal quarter preceding the date of determination;
          (g) Advances to officers, directors and employees of the Borrower and Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time outstanding, for travel, entertainment, relocation and analogous ordinary business purposes; and
          (h) investments in one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower by the Borrower or another Subsidiary.
The Borrower shall not, and shall not suffer or permit any of its Subsidiaries to, use any portion of the Term Loan proceeds, directly or indirectly, to acquire any securities in connection with any transaction subject to Section 13(d) (other than an Investment Transaction) or Section 14 of the Exchange Act, unless, prior to the time such transaction becomes subject to such Section 13 or 14, the board of directors or other applicable governing body of the Person that is the issuer of such securities has adopted a resolution approving such transaction. For purposes of this , an "" means a transaction subject to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that in connection with such transaction the Borrower or any Subsidiary (as the case may be) has reported and at all times continues to report to the SEC that such transaction is undertaken for investment purposes or strategic business purposes.
Section 7.04
Investment Transaction
provided
. Permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume, suffer to exist, or otherwise become or remain directly or indirectly liable with respect to, any Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations, except:
          7.05 Limitation on Subsidiary Indebtedness
          (a) Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection therewith and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder;
Schedule 7.05
provided
          (b) letters of credit, bid bonds, performance guarantees and overdraft obligations guaranteed by the Borrower so long as the aggregate Indebtedness and Contingent Obligations under this is not of any time in excess of $30,000,000;
subsection (b)
          (c) endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business;
          (d) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary incurred pursuant to a Permitted Receivables Facility;
          (e) Indebtedness consisting of (i) the 1.019% unsecured private placement notes issued by Getz Bros. Co. Ltd. ("") in May 2003 in the original principal amount of 20,864,375,000 Japanese Yen and maturing May 7, 2010, and (ii) all loans and other obligations incurred by Getz under a revolving credit facility with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (f/k/a Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi) in the maximum aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding of 1,000,000,000 Japanese Yen, and, with respect to both and , any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection therewith and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder; and
Getz
clauses (i)
(ii)
provided
          (f) other Indebtedness or Contingent Obligations, that the aggregate amount of Indebtedness and Contingent Obligations permitted under and of this shall not exceed $250,000,000.
provided
subsections (a)
(f)
Section 7.05
The restrictions contained in this Section shall not include any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary incurred under this Agreement.
. Enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Borrower, except upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
          7.06 Transactions with Affiliates
. Following the application of proceeds of each Term Loan, have more than 25% of the value of assets of the Borrower, which are subject to any arrangement with the Administrative Agent or any Lender (herein or otherwise) whereby the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's right or ability to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of assets is in any way restricted, be Margin Stock.
          7.07 Use of Proceeds; Regulation U
. Permit any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to enter into any agreement with any Person (other than the Lenders pursuant to this Agreement) which prohibits or limits the ability of such Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to declare or pay any dividends or make other distributions of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any shares of any class of the capital stock of such Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary).
          7.08 Limitation on Subsidiary Dividends
. Enter into any Joint Venture which is not in the healthcare industry.
          7.09 Joint Ventures
. Declare or make any dividend payment or other distribution of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any shares of any class of its capital stock, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value any shares of its capital stock or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such shares, now or hereafter outstanding, except that the Borrower and any wholly-owned Subsidiary may:
          7.10 Restricted Payments
          (a) declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in its common stock;
          (b) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire shares of its common stock or warrants or options to acquire any such shares with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new shares of its common stock; and
          (c) declare or pay cash dividends to its stockholders and purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire shares of its capital stock or warrants, rights or options to acquire any such shares for cash , that, before and immediately after giving effect to such proposed action, no Default or Event of Default exists or would exist.
provided
. Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business carried on by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof.
          7.11 Change in Business
. Make any significant change in accounting treatment or reporting practices, except as required by GAAP, or change the fiscal year of the Borrower or of any Subsidiary.
          7.12 Accounting Changes
. Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters of the Borrower to be greater than 3.0 to 1.0 for the four fiscal quarters ending on such date.
          7.13 Consolidated Leverage Ratio
. Any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default":
          8.01 Events of Default
          (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein any amount of principal of any Term Loan, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Term Loan, or any facility, utilization or other fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
          (b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , or or and, with respect to any default under or , such default shall remain unremedied for a period of five days; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.09
6.11
Article VII
Section 6.01
6.02
          (c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in or above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues unremedied for 30 days after the earlier of (i) the date upon which a Responsible Officer knew or reasonably should have known of such failure and (ii) the date upon which written notice thereof is given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
Other Defaults
subsection (a)
(b)
          (d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower in any other Loan Document or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
          (e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the $75,000,000, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such other Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than $75,000,000; or
Cross-Default
          (f) . The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
          (g) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
          (h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $150,000,000 (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 45 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
          (i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000, or (ii) the commencement or increase of contributions to, or the adoption of or the amendment of a Pension Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in an increase in Unfunded Pension Liability among all Pension Plans in an aggregate amount in excess of $125,000,000; or
ERISA
          (j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Borrower denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
          (k) . There occurs any Change of Control of the Borrower; or
Change of Control
          (l) . (i) The Food and Drug Administration or any other Governmental Authority revokes or fails to renew any material license, permit, franchise, patent, trademark, service mark, trade name, copyright, authorization or other right of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or the Borrower or any Subsidiary for any reason loses any material license, permit, franchise, patent, trademark, service mark, trade name, copyright, authorization or other right, or the Borrower or any Subsidiary suffers the imposition of any restraining order, escrow, suspension or impound of funds in connection with any proceeding (judicial or administrative) with respect to any material license, permit, franchise, patent, trademark, service mark, trade name, copyright, authorization or other right; and (ii) any event or circumstance described in has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Loss of Licenses
clause (i)
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
          8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default
          (a) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Term Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
          (b) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Term Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
          . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Term Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds
Section 8.02
          , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
          , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
          , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Term Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
          , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Term Loans ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
          , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
. Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
          9.01 Appointment and Authority
. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
          9.02 Rights as a Lender
.The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
          9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
          (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
          (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
          (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
          The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
          The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Term Loan, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Term Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
          9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
          9.05 Delegation of Duties
. The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
          9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
Section 10.04
. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
          9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Arrangers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
          9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
. In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Term Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
          9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
          (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Term Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.08
10.04
          (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.08
10.04
          Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
          10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
          (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
          (b) extend or increase the obligation of any Lender to make any portion of any Term Loan without the written consent of such Lender;
          (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
          (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Term Loan or (subject to of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
clause (ii)
Section 10.01
provided
however
          (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.12
Section 8.03
          (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the obligation of any Lender to make any portion of any Term Loan may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender, and any waiver, amendment or the modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
provided
further
          10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
          (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
          (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
          Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
          (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; ,, that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
          (d) . The Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
          (e) . The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices and Term Loan Interest Rate Selection Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
. No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
          10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Borrower shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Lenders; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (c) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to the Borrower under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in and of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 8.02
provided
however
Section 10.08
Section 2.12
provided
further
Section 8.02
clauses (b)
(c)
Section 2.12
          10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
          (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Term Loans made hereunder, including all such out of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Term Loans.
Costs and Expenses
          (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, penalties, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Term Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, penalty, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
          (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under or of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, but without affecting the obligations of the Borrower thereunder, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Pro Rata Term Share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.11(e)
          (d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Term Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
subsection (b)
          (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
          (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all Obligations.
Survival
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
          10.05 Payments Set Aside
clause (b)
.
          10.06 Successors and Assigns
          (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of of this Section or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
subsection (f)
subsection (d)
          (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
          Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Term Loan Note to the assignee Lender, at which time any existing Term Loan Note assigned to such Lender shall be redelivered to the Borrower. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
subsection (c)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
          (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the principal amounts of the Term Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
          (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Pro Rata Term Share of the Term Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
          Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.12
          (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
          (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
          (g) . The words "execution", "signed", "signature", and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
          10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
          For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
          Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to the Borrower, any such notice being waived by the Borrower to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and its respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
          10.08 Set-off
provided
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Term Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
          10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy or electronic format (including .pdf) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
          10.10 Counterparts
. This Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, comprises the complete and integrated agreement of the parties on the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral, on such subject matter. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement. Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof.
          10.11 Integration
provided
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Term Loan, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Term Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
          10.12 Survival of Representations and Warranties
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
          10.13 Severability
. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
          10.14 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
          A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. Any Defaulting Lender that has on more than one occasion failed to fund any portion of the Term Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder shall pay to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in .
Section 10.06(b)
          (b) In the event any Lender fails to approve any amendment, waiver or consent requested by the Borrower pursuant to that has received the written approval of not less than the Required Lenders but also requires the approval of such Lender (any such Lender, a ""), so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Borrower has obtained a commitment (in an amount not less than the entire principal amount of Term Loans to such Restricted Lender) from one or more Lenders or Eligible Assignees to become a Lender for all purposes hereunder (such Lender or Lenders referred to as the ""), the Borrower may cause such Restricted Lender to be replaced by, and to assign all its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including its outstanding Term Loans) pursuant to to, such Replacement Lender. Such Restricted Lender agrees to execute and to deliver to the Administrative Agent one or more Assignment and Assumptions with such Replacement Lender as provided in upon payment at par of all principal, accrued interest, accrued fees and other amounts accrued or owing under this Agreement to such Restricted Lender, and such Replacement Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in in connection with such assignment. The Restricted Lender making such assignment will be entitled to compensation for any expenses or other amounts which would be owing to such Restricted Lender pursuant to any indemnification provision hereof (including, if applicable, ) as if the Borrower had prepaid the Term Loans of such Lender rather than such Restricted Lender having assigned its interest hereunder.
Section 10.01
Restricted Lender
Replacement Lender
Section 10.06
Section 10.06
Section 10.06(b)
Section 3.05
          (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE; THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
PROVIDED
          (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK CITY OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF SUCH STATE, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS. THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF , WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR OTHER DOCUMENT RELATED THERETO. THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE.
FORUM NON CONVENIENS
          (c) EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 10.02
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
          10.17 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
. In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (a) (i) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, (ii) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (iii) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (B) (i), the Administrative Agent and the Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or any other Person and (ii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (c) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a board range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
          10.18 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provided all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
          10.19 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
 
St. Jude Medical Acquires Radi Medical Systems
 
Acquisition accelerates expansion of St. Jude Medical's cardiovascular growth platform
 
ST. PAUL, Minn. and UPPSALA, Sweden  Dec. 21, 2008  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ) and Radi Medical AB announced today the completion of St. Jude Medical's acquisition of Radi Medical Systems AB for $250 million in cash.
 
Radi Medical Systems is the world leader in two segments of the market for cardiovascular medical devices in which St. Jude Medical does not currently participate. For 2008, Radi Medical Systems is expected to generate approximately $80 million in sales, a 19 percent increase over 2007.
 
Radi Medical Systems' pressure measurement guidewire, PressureWire Certus, comprises approximately a 70 percent share of the global market for physiological assessment of coronary lesions. The product is supported by a large and growing body of clinical evidence, including the FAME ("Fractional Flow Reserve vs. Angiography for Multivessel Evaluation") study. The results of the FAME study were presented at the Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics conference in October 2008, and can be viewed at
www.famestudy.com
. The market for physiological assessment of coronary lesions totaled over $60 million in 2008 and is projected to continue growing at a strong double-digit rate.
 
Radi Medical Systems' FemoStop and RadiStop product lines comprise approximately a 60 percent share of the global market for manual compression-assist products for vascular closure. This market totaled approximately $45 million in 2008 and is projected to continue to grow at least at a mid single-digit rate. The FemoStop and RadiStop product lines, together with St. Jude Medical's world-leading Angio-Seal line of active vascular closure products, will be part of an expanded program by St. Jude Medical to fully develop the potential of a global vascular closure device market that is only about 27 percent penetrated.
 
"This acquisition will accelerate the expansion of St. Jude Medical's cardiovascular growth platform and benefit the customers, employees and shareholders of both companies," said Daniel J. Starks, chairman, president and chief executive officer of St. Jude Medical. "We look forward to capturing strategic synergies through this acquisition and further expanding our investment in our cardiovascular division technology, products and programs."
 
Thomas Engstrom, chief executive officer of Radi Medical Systems, said, "We are pleased to join with the industry leader in active vascular closure and a partner who shares our vision of developing innovative cardiovascular technologies that improve patient care. This transaction brings together complementary product lines and, through St. Jude Medical's sales and distribution infrastructure, extends our reach to even more physician customers for the benefit of the patients they help everyday."
 
With this transaction, Radi Medical Systems will become part of the St. Jude Medical Cardiovascular Division. The transaction is expected to be neutral to St. Jude Medical's consolidated earnings per share in 2009 and is expected to be positive to consolidated earnings per share beginning in 2010. St. Jude Medical funded the acquisition with cash on hand outside the United States as well as with the proceeds from a new three-year term loan established recently with a syndicate of banks.
In connection with the transaction, Banc of America Securities LLC acted as financial advisor to St. Jude Medical, and Sidley Austin LLP and Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyra AB are serving as legal counsel to St. Jude Medical and Katsky Korins LLP and Advokatfirmen Lindahl are serving as legal counsel to Radi Medical AB.
 
About Radi Medical Systems
 
Radi Medical Systems develops, manufactures and sells medical devices designed to improve patient care. The company's pioneering work in the field of interventional cardiology has resulted in market-leading intravascular sensors and hemostasis management devices. Radi Medical Systems works closely with medical practitioners to develop solutions that address clinical needs, as well as provide clinical education and support. Founded in 1988, Radi Medical Systems employs approximately 380 people globally and has representation in more than 60 countries. The company is based in Uppsala, Sweden. For more information, visit www.radi.se.
 
About FAME
 
The FAME study is the world's first randomized, prospective, multicenter trial to compare clinical outcomes and the cost-effectiveness of physiologic-guided percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) to an angiographic-guided PCI's in patients with multi vessel coronary artery disease. Results from the FAME study were presented at the Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics symposium in October 2008. Additional information about the FAME study is available at
www.famestudy.com.
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical develops medical technology and services that focus on putting more control into the hands of those who treat cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide. The company is dedicated to advancing the practice of medicine by reducing risk wherever possible and contributing to successful outcomes for every patient. Headquartered in St. Paul, Minn., St. Jude Medical employs more than 13,000 people worldwide and has five major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiac surgery, cardiology and neuromodulation. For more information, please visit www.sjm.com.
 
St. Jude Medical Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Company's filings with the SEC, including those described in the Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements sections of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 27, 2008. The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
   
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
News Release
 
CONTACTS
 
 
St. Jude Medical Acquires MediGuide
 
New platform technology to enhance St. Jude Medical's atrial fibrillation and other growth programs
ST. PAUL, Minn. and HAIFA, Israel  Dec. 22, 2008  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ) and MediGuide Inc. today announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement and simultaneous closing of the merger whereby St. Jude Medical has acquired all of the outstanding shares of MediGuide Inc., including the 41.3 percent interest (on a fully-diluted basis) owned by Elbit Systems Ltd. (NASDAQ: ESLT, TASE: ESLT) for $283 million in cash and the assumption of net liabilities totaling approximately $17 million.
 
Terms of the transaction provide for St. Jude Medical to pay $138 million of the purchase price in December 2008, with the balance due in two subsequent payments of $111 million in November 2009 and up to $34 million in April 2010. MediGuide has developed a sophisticated navigation system, the Medical Positioning System (gMPS), that uses proprietary technology for real-time tracking of sub-millimeter sized sensors. These sensors can be mounted on needles, guidewires, catheters, or other medical devices used for minimally-invasive intra-body navigation. The 3-D position and orientation of the sensors can be calculated in real time and projected graphically on a fluoroscope, CT, MRI, ultrasound, or 3-D reconstructed image of the anatomy. The gMPS system is intended to provide a comprehensive solution for motion artifacts caused by patient heartbeats, respiration, or other movements. The goal of the gMPS system is to increase the accuracy and amount of information available to a physician during a catheterization or other minimally invasive procedure while reducing the risk of exposure to radiation for the patient and medical team. MediGuide's gMPS technology and its gMPS Enabled Guided Measurement Catheter (GMC) are European CE Mark certified and are currently limited to investigational use only in the United States.
 
"Today's announcement reflects St. Jude Medical's commitment to product leadership and our strategy of supporting superior technology that gives physicians the most control possible in their effort to enhance patient outcomes," said Daniel J. Starks, chairman, president and chief executive officer of St. Jude Medical. "In addition to continuing our strong commitment to developing our atrial fibrillation platform, we believe MediGuide's proprietary technology may also extend across a variety of other product categories, including cardiac rhythm management, interventional cardiology, neurology and structural heart disease. We look forward to bringing this technology into our portfolio so that we can further develop and capture these potential opportunities."
 
Gera Strommer, president and chief executive officer of MediGuide, said, "We look forward to working with the St. Jude Medical team. With their support, we will have the resources to more fully capitalize on MediGuide's innovations and successfully move through the next stage of our development plans." Mr. Strommer and Uzi Eichler, vice president of technology for MediGuide, are expected to join St. Jude Medical.
 
Joseph Ackerman, president and chief executive officer of Elbit Systems, said, "We are pleased to have a company such as St. Jude Medical recognize the value of MediGuide. We believe the acquisition provides MediGuide an excellent opportunity to continue its growth, while allowing Elbit Systems to focus on its core business areas."
 
With this transaction, MediGuide will become part of the St. Jude Medical Atrial Fibrillation Division. In connection with the transaction, St. Jude Medical will record a special charge of approximately $300 million for in-process research and development in the fourth quarter of 2008. This acquisition does not change St. Jude Medical's outlook for 2008 or 2009 consolidated earnings per share, exclusive of the special charge.
 
St. Jude Medical funded the acquisition with cash on hand outside the United States as well as with the proceeds from a new three-year term loan established recently with a syndicate of banks.
 
In connection with the transaction, Banc of America Securities LLC is acting as financial advisor to St. Jude Medical, and Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP is serving as legal counsel. Morrison & Foerster LLP and Amit, Pollak, Matalon & Co. are serving as legal counsel to MediGuide.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Today
 
St. Jude Medical will host a brief conference call for investors later this morning at 9 a.m. CT to discuss the MediGuide acquisition, as well as yesterday's announced acquisition of Radi Medical Systems AB.  For complete instructions on how to listen to the live audio webcast or a replay of the webcast, please refer to the Investor Relations section of the St. Jude Medical website at
www.sjm.com
.
 
About MediGuide
 
MediGuide (Delaware, USA & Haifa, Israel) - an Israeli based company (originally spun off from Elbit Systems - NASDAQ: ESLT and got its first investment from Vitalife VC during 2001), is the provider of technology, solutions and applications for intra body navigation and less invasive procedures with a special focus on cardiology. Based on its proprietary gMPS technology, MediGuide brings the ability to navigate gMPS Enabled Devices (catheters, wires and other devices equipped with a sub millimeter gMPS sensor) in the MPS Ready Cathlab environment, co-developed by MediGuide in collaboration with the leading imaging companies. Further information can be found at http://www.mediguide.co.il.
 
About Elbit Systems Ltd.
 
Elbit Systems Ltd. is an international defense electronics company engaged in a wide range of defense related programs throughout the world. The Company, which includes Elbit Systems and its subsidiaries, operates in the areas of aerospace, land and naval systems, command, control, communications, computers, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("C4ISR"), unmanned air vehicle (UAV) systems, advanced electro-optics, electro-optic space systems, EW suites, airborne warning systems, ELINT systems, data links and military communications systems and radios. The Company also focuses on the upgrading of existing military platforms and developing new technologies for defense, homeland security and commercial aviation applications.
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical develops medical technology and services that focus on putting more control into the hands of those who treat cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide. The company is dedicated to advancing the practice of medicine by reducing risk wherever possible and contributing to successful outcomes for every patient. Headquartered in St. Paul, Minn., St. Jude Medical employs more than 13,000 people worldwide and has five major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiac surgery, cardiology and neuromodulation. For more information, please visit www.sjm.com.
 
St. Jude Medical Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, anticipated regulatory approvals and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Company's filings with the SEC, including those described in the Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements sections of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 27, 2008. The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
 
 
 


