FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20081029162455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION
 
13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report: October 23, 2008
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 0-8672
 
 
One Lillehei Plaza
St. Paul, Minnesota 55117
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(651) 483-2000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
  
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)   The Department of Treasury requires that all nonqualified deferred compensation plans be amended by December 31, 2008 to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulation and IRS guidance (collectively, "section 409A"). Therefore, on October 23, 2008, the Board of Directors of St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") adopted an amended and restated version of the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Management Savings Plan, effective January 1, 2008 (the "MSP Restatement"), in order to bring the plan into compliance with section 409A. Pursuant to the MSP Restatement, the benefits under the plan are subject to the following changes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary of the benefit changes resulting from the MSP Restatement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the MSP Restatement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
2
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 29, 2008
 
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
MANAGEMENT SAVINGS PLAN
Restated Effective January
 
1, 2008
 
 
 
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
MANAGEMENT SAVINGS PLAN
Restated Effective January
 
1, 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
- i -
 
 
 
- ii -
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
MANAGEMENT SAVINGS PLAN
 
Restated Effective January
 
1, 2008
 
St. Jude Medical, Inc, a Minnesota corporation, hereby approves and adopts this amendment, in the form of a restatement, of the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Management Savings Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008. The purpose of the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Management Savings Plan is to assist St. Jude Medical, Inc. in attracting and retaining key employees, encouraging their long term commitment to the success of the company, and offering key employees an opportunity to defer compensation for their retirement. The purpose of this restatement of the Plan is to bring the Plan into compliance, effective January 1, 2008, with the requirements of Code 409A and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
ARTICLE 1
 
DEFINITIONS
 
When used in this document with initial capital letters, the following terms have the meanings indicated unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
- 3 -
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 30% of the Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities; provided, that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 -
 
The amount of the payment based on Unforeseeable Emergency is limited to the amount that is reasonable necessary to satisfy the emergency need, and shall include the amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local income taxes reasonably anticipated to result from the payment. Whether a Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency which may permit a distribution to be made under subsection (c) of Section 7.2 is to be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances of each case and Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(i)(3), but, in any case, a distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency may not be made to the extent that such emergency is or may be relieved: (A) through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise; (B) by liquidation of the Participant's assets to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship; or (C) by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. The Company must take into account any additional compensation available upon the cessation of deferrals under the Plan, but may disregard amounts available as a hardship distribution or a loan from any qualified retirement plan sponsored by the Company or as an unforeseeable emergency distribution under another nonqualified plan sponsored by the Company. Neither a Participant's request nor failure to request a distribution upon an Unforeseeable Emergency or the Company's acceptance or rejection of such a request shall be deemed a change in payment election under this Plan.
 
 
 
- 9 -
 
ARTICLE 2
PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS
       . To be eligible to adopt and participate in the Plan, an employer must be an Affiliate of the Company.
2.1.
Eligibility
2.2.
       
Participation Requirements
. The Company, the sponsor of the Plan, and any other Affiliate that is or becomes eligible to adopt the Plan and become a Participating Employer pursuant to Section 2.1 may adopt the Plan and become a Participating Employer in the Plan provided that such Affiliate declares in writing to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and files such declaration with the Company. The date on which such Affiliate may become a Participating Employer in the Plan shall be the date such declaration is filed with the Company or such later date specified in the declaration. Each of the Participating Employers shall be obligated for their allocable portion of the benefits provided under the Plan to their respective Participants. The respective benefit obligations of the Participating Employers are not secured in any way. Such obligations constitute no more than unfunded and unsecured promises of payment and performance. Each Participating Employer shall be responsible for, and shall have the obligation of, its allocable share of costs and expenses incurred with respect to the operation and administration of the Plan, and shall be responsible for, and have the obligation of, any benefits payable under the Plan with respect to any employees of such Participating Employer who are Participants in the Plan and eligible to receive benefits under the terms of the Plan.
2.3.
       
Recordkeeping and Reporting
. The Company shall maintain records sufficient to determine the benefits (and the compensation sources of such benefits) which may become payable to or with respect to any employee of the Participating Employer who is a Participant in the Plan and to provide such Participants with any reports which may be required under the terms of the Plan or as required by law.
 
- 10 -
 
2.4.
       
Termination of Participation
. A Participating Employer, other than the Company, may withdraw from participation in the Plan at any time by providing the Company with 30 days advance written notice of such withdrawal from participation and the effective date of such withdrawal by the Participating Employer, which 30 day notice period may be waived by the Company. In addition, the Company may terminate the participation of a Participating Employer at any time by providing such Participating Employer with 30 days advance written notice of such termination of participation, which 30 day notice period may be waived by the Participating Employer. A Participating Employer that terminates its participation in the Plan shall remain obligated under the Plan with respect to benefits payable with respect to employees of the Participating Employer participating in the Plan unless otherwise expressly agreed by the Company with the Company fully assuming such obligations. No withdrawal by a Participating Employer shall constitute a termination of the Plan with respect to affected Participants employed by the Participating Employer or result in a distribution of any amount in any Participants' Accounts solely as a result of such withdrawal.
2.5.
       
Separate Accounting
. The Company shall establish and maintain separate Accounts for each of the Participating Employers and their respective Participants with respect to whom amounts have been allocated or credited under the Plan. Such separate accounting is intended to comply with Code 404(a)(5) and Code 1.404(a)-12 of the Treasury Regulations (which provide that an employer can deduct the amounts contributed to a nonqualified plan in the taxable year in which an amount attributable to the contribution is includable in the gross income of employees participating in the plan, but, in the case of a plan in which more than one employee participates only if separate accounts are maintained for each employee). The plan for a Participant is treated as a separate plan from the plan for any other Participant, even though such plans may be incorporated into a single written document such as this Plan and covering all Participants. Except as provided in the next sentence, this Plan and any Aggregated Plans Company in which a given Participant participates shall be aggregated and treated as a single plan with respect to that Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to each Participant:
 
 
 
 
- 11 -
 
ARTICLE 3
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
3.1.
       
Eligibility
. Each executive officer, key management level employee or Highly Compensated Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan effective as of the date on which such individual first becomes an executive officer, achieves a key management level position or becomes a Highly Compensated Employee; provided, however, that the Compensation Committee shall determine eligibility to participate in the Plan with respect to each such executive officer, key management level employee and Highly Compensated Employee. In addition, the Compensation Committee may by express action designate other management level or highly compensated employees of the Participating Employers as eligible to participate in the Plan. If the Compensation Committee designates a management level or Highly Compensated Employee of a Participating Employer as eligible to become a Participant in the Plan, the Compensation Committee shall inform the employee in writing of such designation and the date on which the employee shall become a Participant in the Plan.
3.2.
       
Participation
. An individual determined to be eligible to participate in the Plan under Section 3.1 shall become a Participant as of the first day of the payroll period of the appropriate employer, either the Company or the appropriate Participating Employer, as soon as administratively feasible following the date on which the individual properly elects to participate in the Plan by completing and executing an enrollment form or by evidencing such enrollment using an electronic or telephonic medium available to such individual and acceptable to the Plan Administration Committee; provided, however, that in accordance with subsection (d) of Section 4.2, such election is properly made within 30 days after the date the employee is notified under Section 3.1. An individual shall not be treated as newly eligible for this Plan if the individual is a participant in an Aggregated Plan sponsored by the Company.
 
 
 
- 12 -
 
 
3.3.
       
Suspension of Eligibility
. Notwithstanding anything apparently to the contrary in the Plan document or in any written communication, summary, resolution or document or oral communication, in the event that a Participant has, for the current Plan Year or is expected in good faith to have for the next Plan Year, compensation from the Company or another Participating Employer equal to or less than $100,000, or the Compensation Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, determines that a Participant will no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan, then such Participant's compensation deferral elections made in accordance with Article 4 will terminate effective no earlier than the first day of the next Plan Year and no additional amounts shall be credited to his or her Accounts under Article 4 until such time as the individual is again determined to be eligible to participate in the Plan by the Compensation Committee and makes a new election under Article 4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may cancel an existing and otherwise irrevocable election for that Plan Year at any time following the Participant's receipt of a distribution for an Unforeseeable Emergency or of a distribution from the Company's Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan based on a hardship within the meaning of Treas. Reg. 1.401(k)-1(d)(3). However, the Accounts of such Participant shall continue to be adjusted by the other provisions of Article 5 until fully distributed.
 
- 13 -
 
ARTICLE 4
BENEFITS
4.1.
       
Deferred Compensation
. Subject to the limitations herein imposed, including, without limitation, Articles 12 and 13, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of any one or more of the following items of compensation:
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may defer an item of compensation only to the extent that the Participant is entitled to receive such item of compensation and the total amount deferred by a Participant shall be limited in any Plan Year, if necessary, to satisfy Social Security taxes (including Medicare), other employment taxes, federal, state or local income taxes, employee benefit plan deferrals or contributions, and any other required or necessary withholding requirements as determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Plan Administration Committee. For each Plan Year, subject to the limitations of this Section 4.1, a Participant may elect to defer up to 100% of any Bonus Award payable pursuant to a bonus or incentive plan, up to 100% of Eligible Compensation, up to 100% of any Commissions payable pursuant to an employment or compensation agreement or incentive arrangement, and up to 100% of any amounts payable pursuant to the MICP. Upon such deferral, the Participant will have no further right to such deferred compensation other than as provided under the Plan. Such deferred compensation shall be the record of the value of such deferred compensation credited to a Deferred Compensation Account of the Participant and shall be used solely for accounting purposes.
 
- 14 -
 
4.2.
       
Form and Effectiveness of Deferral Elections
.
Except as provided in subsections (a) and (d) of this Section 4.2 and subject to the limitations of Section 4.1, each calendar year a Participant may elect to defer an amount of Eligible Compensation for the following calendar year and to have that amount credited to the Deferred Compensation Account of the Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
The amount deferred under this subsection (a) shall be determined as a percentage of Eligible Compensation (expressed in whole percent increments). Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section 4.2, Eligible Compensation earned by a Participant during a calendar year may be deferred at the election of the Participant only if the election to defer such compensation is made (or is in effect) during the preceding calendar year. Such a deferral election is irrevocable for the period for which it is made and must be made in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administration Committee.
 
 
 
- 15 -
 
 
 
The amount or amounts deferred under this subsection (b) shall be determined as a percentage of such compensation (expressed in whole percent increments). Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section 4.2, Commissions and Bonus Awards otherwise payable to a Participant during a calendar year may be deferred at the election of the Participant only if the election to defer such compensation is made (or is in effect) during the preceding calendar year. Such a deferral election is irrevocable for the period for which it is made and must be made in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administration Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
The amount deferred under this subsection (c) shall be determined as a percentage of the MICP payment (expressed in whole percent increments). Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section 4.2, an MICP payment earned by a Participant during a calendar year, although payment may be made in the following calendar year, may be deferred at the election of the Participant only if the election to defer such payment is made (or is in effect) during the preceding calendar year. Such a deferral election is irrevocable for the period for which it is made and must be made in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administration Committee. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, no election to defer an MICP payment or to modify or revoke a valid election to defer an MICP payment made during a calendar year for an MICP payment that is earned during that same calendar year shall be recognized or approved.
 
- 16 -
 
 
 
- 17 -
 
4.3.
       
Matching Amounts
. For each Plan Year, a matching amount may be credited to an eligible Participant's Matching Amount Account provided that the Participant has at least 1 Year of Service and is an employee of the Company or another Participating Employer as of the last day of such Plan Year and based upon whether a matching contribution is made by the Company under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan with respect to that Plan Year, and if a matching contribution is made, the amount of such contribution. If a matching amount is to be credited to a Participant's Matching Amount Account pursuant to this Section 4.3, the amount that shall be credited to the Participant's Matching Amount Account shall be equal to the product of:
 
 
 
provided, however, that the total of Matching Contributions under this Plan and matching contribution the Company made or would have made under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan if the Participant made the maximum elective deferrals permitted for highly compensated employees under that plan shall not exceed 100% of the matching contribution that would have been provided under the Company's Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan absent any plan-based restrictions that reflect limits on qualified plan contributions under the Code and based upon "compensation" as defined under the Company's Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan.
4.4.
       
Discretionary Amounts
. In addition to any amounts deferred by a Participant under Section 4.2 and the matching amounts that may be credited to the Participant's Matching Amount Account under Section 4.3, for each Plan Year, discretionary amounts may be credited to an Account or Accounts of the Participant provided that the Participant is an employee of the Company or another Participating Employer as of the last day of such Plan Year and determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4.4.
 
- 18 -
 
 
 
 
If, however, a Participant is neither eligible to participate in nor eligible for a profit sharing contribution under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. Profit Sharing Employee Savings Plan, then no discretionary amount will be credited to the Discretionary Amount Account of that Participant under this subsection (a).
 
 
- 19 -
 
4.5.
       
Amounts Transferred to this Plan
. The amounts subject to a transfer pursuant to this Section 4.5 and the requirements regarding such transfer as herein provided shall apply with respect to the benefits that may be payable under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
- 20 -
 
 
 
 
 
- 21 -
 
 
4.6.
       
Amounts Transferred From this Plan
. In the event a participant is no longer eligible to participate in the Plan, and such participant becomes a participant in a nonqualified deferred compensation plan of an Affiliate, the Company shall determine, in its sole and absolute discretion, whether an amount credited to an Account of the Participant under this Plan shall be transferred to and credited to an account that may be established or maintained for the Participant under such other nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If such transfer is determined to be made, the Company shall determine the terms and conditions applicable to such transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any change in the timing or form of distribution from that in effect under this Plan as a result of the transfer of the Participant's Accounts to such other nonqualified deferred compensation plan shall not result in an acceleration or redeferral of the amount distributable under this Plan except as may be permitted in accordance with Code 409A.
4.7.
       
Participant Accounts
. A Deferred Compensation Account, a Discretionary Amount Account, a Matching Amount Account, and a Transfer Account shall be established and maintained for each participant to the extent necessary or required for purposes of the administration and operation of the Plan with respect to which amounts may be credited pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 regarding deferred compensation, Section 4.3 regarding matching amounts, Section 4.4 regarding discretionary amounts, and Section 4.5 regarding transferred amounts, which amounts shall be credited with amounts which shall be measured in dollars.
 
- 22 -
 
ARTICLE 5
VALUATION OF ACCOUNTS
5.1.
       
Deferred Amount
. If amounts have been credited to a Deferred Compensation Account, a Discretionary Amount Account, or a Matching Amount Account of a Participant in accordance with Article 4, such amounts shall be allocated among the investment options made available by the Company for purposes of measuring the value of the benefit that may be payable to or with respect to the Participant under the Plan. The allocation of such amounts shall be made as of the close of business on the date that such amounts would have otherwise been paid to the Participant and allocated among Measurement Funds used to determine the adjustment of amounts credited to the Account or Accounts of the Participant in accordance with the elections made by the Participant as provided in Section 5.2, and if no such Measurement Funds have been selected for purposes of the adjustment of amounts credited to the Account or Accounts of the Participant, then such amounts shall be allocated to the default fund approved by the Plan Administration Committee.
5.2.
       
Crediting/Debiting of Account Balances
. In accordance with, and subject to, the rules and procedures that are established from time to time by the Plan Administration Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, amounts shall be credited or debited to the Account or Accounts of the Participant in accordance with the following rules:
 
 
- 23 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 24 -
 
ARTICLE 6
VESTING
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 25 -
 
6.2.
       
Change of Control
. Notwithstanding any provision in this Article 6, except as provided in Section 6.3, in the event of a Change in Control, a Participant's Matching Amount Account and Discretionary Amount Account shall immediately become 100% Vested, without regard to the Vesting schedule in Section 6.2.
 
 
- 26 -
 
ARTICLE 7
DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS
7.1.
       
Distributable Events
. Subject to Section 7.4, a Participant's Distributable Event with respect to the Account or Accounts of the Participant shall be the earliest to occur of the following events:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each such Distribution Event shall be considered a separate payment for purposes of the right to make an election as to the time and form of distribution after the initial election.
 
 
- 27 -
 
 
 
 
- 28 -
 
 
 
- 29 -
 
 
7.3.
       
Permissible Acceleration
.
Notwithstanding Section 7.2, the Plan Administration Committee, in its sole discretion and without any Participant discretion or election, operationally may elect accelerations of the time or schedule of payment from the Plan in any or all of the circumstances described in Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii) through (xiv). Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, the mandatory lump-sum payment of the remaining balance in the Participant's Accounts in the Plan and under all Aggregated Plans, and the payment amount does not exceed the applicable dollar amount under Code 402(g)(1)(B); provided that the Plan Administration Committee must treat all similarly situated service providers on a reasonably equivalent basis.
 
 
 
 
 
the benefits which may be payable with respect to the Participant under the Plan, or the part thereof as to which such Participant's designation fails, as the case may be, shall be payable to the first class of the following classes of automatic Beneficiaries with a member surviving the Participant and (except in the case of surviving issue) in equal shares if there is more than one member in such class surviving the Participant:
 
- 30 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 31 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 32 -
 
7.5.
       
Death Prior to Full Distribution
. If, at the death of the Participant, any payment to the Participant was due or otherwise distributable but not actually paid, the amount of such payment shall be included in the Account or Accounts which are payable to the Beneficiary (and shall not be paid to the Participant's estate).
7.6.
       
Facility of Payment
. In case of the legal disability, including minority, of a Participant or Beneficiary eligible to receive distribution of a benefit payable under the terms of the Plan by a Participating Employer, such benefit shall be paid by the Participating Employer, if the Company shall be advised of the existence of such condition:
 
 
 
Any payment made in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section shall constitute a complete discharge of any liability or obligation of the Participating Employer and the Company therefor.
ARTICLE 8
NONTRANSFERABILITY
8.1.
       
Anti-Alienation of Benefits
. Any amount which may be credited to an Account or Accounts of a Participant under the Plan, and any rights or privileges pertaining thereto, may not be anticipated, alienated, sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process; and no interest or right to receive an amount may be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims for alimony, support, separate maintenance and claims in bankruptcy proceedings.
 
- 33 -
 
8.2.
       
Incompetent Participants
. If any person who may be eligible to receive a payment under the Plan has a legal disability, payment shall be made to the person designated as provided in Section 7.7.
8.3.
       
Designated Beneficiary
. In the event of a Participant's death prior to the payment of all or a portion of any amount which may be payable with respect to the Participant under the Plan, the payment of any amount payable on behalf of the Participant under the Plan shall be made to the Participant's Beneficiary designated on a form, which form shall be accepted and approved by the Plan Administration Committee as provided in Section 7.4. If no such Beneficiary has been designated, payment shall be made as required under Section 7.4.
ARTICLE 9
WITHHOLDING
9.1.
       
Determination of Tax Withholding
. The Participating Employer or the Company shall have the authority, duty and power to determine, withhold and report the amount of any applicable employment taxes and any applicable federal, state, or local taxes as required under applicable law, and if required by law, the Participant's share of Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") taxes, and any other employment taxes.
9.2.
       
Withholding
. The amounts payable pursuant to the Plan shall be reduced by the amount of any federal, state or local taxes required by law to be withheld by the Participating Employer or the Company under applicable aw with respect to such payments and, if required by law, the Participant's share of Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") taxes, and any other employment taxes.
 
- 34 -
 
ARTICLE 10
CLAIMS ADMINISTRATION
10.1.
     
Claims Procedures
. The Company shall be responsible for reviewing and claims for payment under the terms of this Plan. The procedures for filing claims for payments under the Plan are described below. For claims procedures purposes, the "Claims Manager" shall be the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 35 -
 
 
 
 
- 36 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.2.
     
Participant's Address
. Each Participant shall keep the Company informed of his or her current address and the current address of his or her beneficiary. The Company shall not be obligated to search for any person. If the location of a Participant is not made known to the Company within 3 years after the date on which payment of the Participant's benefits payable under the Plan may be made, payment may be made as though the Participant had died at the end of the three-year period. If, within 1 additional year after such three-year period has elapsed, or, within 3 years after the actual death of a Participant, the Company is unable to locate any designated beneficiary of the Participant, then neither the Company nor any other Participating Employer shall have any further obligation to pay any benefit under the Plan to or on behalf of such Participant or designated beneficiary and such benefit shall be irrevocably forfeited.
 
- 37 -
 
10.3.
     
Conflict of Interest
. If any individual to whom authority has been delegated or redelegated hereunder shall also be a Participant in this Plan, such Participant shall have no authority with respect to any matter specifically affecting such Participant's individual interest hereunder or the interest of a person superior to him or her in the Company or Participating Employer (as distinguished from the interests of all Participants and their beneficiaries or a broad class of Participants and beneficiaries), all such authority being reserved exclusively to other individuals as the case may be, to the exclusion of such Participant, and such Participant shall act only in such Participant's individual capacity in connection with any such matter.
10.4.
     
Service of Process
. In the absence of any designation to the contrary by the Company, the General Counsel of the Company is designated as the appropriate and exclusive agent for the receipt of service of process directed to the Plan in any legal proceeding, including arbitration, involving the Plan.
10.5.
     
Errors in Computations
. The Company and any Participating Employer shall not be liable or responsible for any error in the computation of any Account or the determination of any benefit payable to or with respect to any Participant resulting from any misstatement of fact made by the Participant or by or on behalf of any survivor to whom such benefit shall be payable, directly or indirectly, to the Company and any Participating Employer and used in determining the benefit. The Company and any Participating Employer shall not be obligated or required to increase the benefit payable to or with respect to such Participant which, on discovery of the misstatement, is found to be understated as a result of such misstatement of the Participant. However, the benefit of any Participant which is overstated by reason of any such misstatement or any other reason shall be reduced to the amount appropriate in view of the truth (and to recover any prior overpayment).
 
- 38 -
 
ARTICLE 11
ALLOCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND FIDUCIARY FUNCTIONS
11.1.
     
Role of the Company
.
The Company is the sponsor of the plan, but does not act as named fiduciary of the Plan. The named fiduciary of the Plan shall be as set forth in Section 11.3 below.
11.2.
     
Role of the Board and Compensation Committee
.
The Board of Directors, or the Compensation Committee, acting on behalf of the Company solely in its capacity as sponsor of, and not in a fiduciary capacity with respect to, the Plan, shall have only the following duties and responsibilities:
 
 
 
 
11.3.
     
Role of the Plan Administration Committee
.
The Plan Administration Committee shall have the authority, responsibilities and full discretion to serve on behalf of the Company in the administration of the Plan. The Company's Vice President of Human Resources shall serve as Chairperson of the Plan Administration Committee, and shall be responsible for the appointment of Committee members. The Plan Administration Committee shall adopt a charter, setting forth the structure and operating procedures for the Plan Administrator. The charter shall also specify the functions, authority and discretion retained by the Committee and the functions, authority and discretion delegated to others in accordance with the Plan and the charter.
 
- 39 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 40 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 41 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan Administration Committee shall have the aforementioned powers to the maximum extent permitted by law. All findings, decisions and determinations made by the Plan Administration Committee shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be final and binding upon all parties and shall not be subject to de novo review if challenged in court.
11.4.
     
Role of the Benefit Administrator
.
The Benefit Administrator is the contractual service provider to the Plan appointed by the Plan Administration Committee to assist the Plan Administration Committee in the administration of the Plan as provided in this Article 11 and the Plan Investment Committee in the designation of the Measurement Funds as provided in Article 5. The Benefit Administrator's duties shall be stated in contractual agreements with the Plan Administration Committee, including, for example, serving as: recordkeeper for participant accounts in the Plan; Claims Administrator in accordance with Section 10.1; manager of the call center and websites that support the Plan; provider of administrative forms, notices and communications to participants; provider of investment education; provider of documents disclosing the terms and performance of the Measurement Funds; and provider of quarterly performance reports for the Measurement Funds and participation data to the Plan Administration Committee and Plan Investment Committee. The Benefit Administrator shall perform such services in accordance with the terms of the Plan and any policies established by the Plan Administration Committee and the Plan Investment Committee.
 
- 42 -
 
11.5.
     
Role of the Plan Investment Committee
.
The Plan Investment Committee shall have the authority, responsibilities and full discretion to carry out the functions set forth in Article 5. The Vice President of Human Resources of the Company shall serve as Chairperson of the Plan Investment Committee, and shall be responsible for the appointment of Committee members. The Plan Investment Committee shall adopt a charter, setting forth the structure and operating procedures for the Committee. The charter shall also specify the functions, authority and discretion retained by the Committee and the functions, authority and discretion delegated to others in accordance with the Plan and the charter.
 
 
 
 
- 43 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 44 -
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan Investment Committee shall have the aforementioned powers to the maximum extent permitted by law. All findings, decisions and determinations made by the Plan Investment Committee shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be final and binding upon all parties and shall not be subject to de novo review if challenged in court.
11.6.
     
Compensation
.
No member of the Plan Administration or Plan Investment Committees shall receive any compensation from the Trust for services provided.
11.7.
     
Indemnity
.
The Company shall, to the greatest extent permitted by ERISA and applicable state law, indemnify each member of the Plan Administration and Plan Investment Committees, and any other employee of the Company, including any officer, who in the performance of his or her duties as an employee exercises any discretion or control over the administration of the Plan or its assets against any and all claims, loss, damages, expenses (including counsel fees approved by the respective Committee), and liability (including any amounts paid in settlement with the respective Committee's approval) arising from any loss or damage or depreciation which may result in connection with the execution of the respective Committee's duties or the exercise of the respective Committee's discretion or from any other action or failure to act hereunder.
 
- 45 -
 
11.8.
     
Powers Denied
.
No action of the Plan Administration Committee or Plan Investment Committee shall:
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 12
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
12.1.
     
No Employment Rights
. Neither the Plan nor any action taken under the Plan shall be construed as providing any Participant any right to be retained in the service or employ of any Participating Employer.
12.2
.     
Participants Should Consult Advisors
. Neither the Company or any Participating Employer, nor their respective directors, officers, employees or agents makes any representation or warranty with respect to the federal, state or other tax, financial, estate planning, or the securities or other legal implications of participation in the Plan. Participants should consult with their own tax, financial and legal advisors with respect to their participation in the Plan.
 
- 46 -
 
12.3.
     
Unfunded and Unsecured
. The Plan shall at all times be considered entirely unfunded both for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating assets of the Company or any Participating Employer for payment of any amounts under the Plan. Any funds invested under the Plan shall continue for all purposes to be part of the respective general assets of the Company or any Participating Employer and available to general creditors in the event of a bankruptcy (involvement in a pending proceeding under the Federal Bankruptcy ) or insolvency (inability to pay debts as they mature) of the Company or a Participating Employer. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee and the applicable Participants of such bankruptcy or insolvency. No Participant or any other person shall have any interests in any particular assets of the Company or any Participating Employer by reason of the right to receive a benefit under the Plan and to the extent the Participant or any other person acquires a right to receive benefits under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any general unsecured creditor. The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Company and any other Participating Employer for the payment of benefits payable under the Plan to the Participants in the future. Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by any Participating Employer or any other person or entity that any funds in any trust or the assets of the Company or any Participating Employer will be sufficient to pay any benefit under the Plan. Furthermore, no Participant shall have any right to a benefit under the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
 
- 47 -
 
 
12.4.
     
Plan Provisions
. Except when otherwise required by the context, any singular terminology shall include the plural.
12.5.
     
Severability
. If a provision of the Plan shall be held to be illegal or invalid, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
12.6.
     
Applicable Law
. To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of the State of Minnesota shall apply with respect to the Plan.
ARTICLE 13
AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATION
13.1.
     
Amendment of the Plan
. The Board of Directors reserves the power to alter, amend or wholly revise the Plan at any time and from time to time and the interest of each Participant is subject to the powers so reserved; provided, however, that no amendment made subsequent to a Change in Control shall be effective to the extent that it would have a materially adverse impact on a Participant's reasonably expected economic benefit attributable to compensation deferred by the Participant prior to the Change in Control. The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan at any time to comply with Code 409A, Treas. Reg. 1.409A and other applicable guidance under Code 409A or for any other purpose, provided that such amendment will not result in taxation to any Participant under Code 409A.
 
- 48 -
 
13.2.
     
Procedure for Amendment
. An amendment shall be authorized by the Board of Directors and shall be stated in an instrument in writing signed in the name of the Company by a person or persons authorized by the Board of Directors. After the instrument has been so executed, the Plan shall be deemed to have been amended in the manner therein set forth, and all parties interested herein shall be bound thereby. No amendment to the Plan may alter, impair, or reduce the benefits credited to any Accounts prior to the effective date of such amendment without the written consent of any affected Participant.
13.3.
     
Termination
. The Board of Directors of the Company may, but is not required to, terminate and liquidate the Plan which includes the distribution of all Plan Accounts under the following circumstances:
 
 
 
 
 
- 49 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 50 -


