FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20091026131714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 26, 2009
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(651) 756-2000
 
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)   Joseph McCullough has notified St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") of his decision to step down from his role as Group President of the Company effective November 1, 2009 and his intent to retire from the Company. As a result, Michael Rousseau, Group President, will assume responsibility for the Company's United States Division, which he previously led from January 2002 to January 2008. The Cardiac Rhythm Management Division will continue to report to Mr. Rousseau. Reporting directly to Daniel Starks, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, will be Mr. Rousseau, as well as the Company's Atrial Fibrillation, Cardiovascular, Neuromodulation and International Divisions.
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


