FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20090728162554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): July 28, 2009 (July 23, 2009)
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
One St. Jude Medical Drive
St. Paul, Minnesota 55117
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(651) 756-2000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
  
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
(a)  
Indenture
 
On July 28, 2009, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the "Company") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee" and, together with the Company, the "Indenture Parties"), entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture"), the form of which was filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-160726) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 22, 2009.
 
(b)  
First Supplemental Indenture
 
On July 28, 2009, the Indenture Parties entered into a First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture. The First Supplemental Indenture relates to the Company's 3.750% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes") and 4.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "2019 Notes"). On July 28, 2009, the Company issued and sold $700 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Notes, and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes, in a public offering pursuant to the Registration Statement. The First Supplemental Indenture includes forms of the 2014 Notes and 2019 Notes.
 
The 2014 Notes will pay interest semi-annually at a rate of 3.750% per annum until July 15, 2014 and the 2019 Notes will pay interest semi-annually at a rate of 4.875% per annum until July 15, 2019. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of certain indebtedness and the repurchase of the Company's outstanding common stock pursuant to the Company's authorized share repurchase program.
 
(c)  
Underwriting Agreement
 
On July 23, 2009, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the several Underwriters named in Schedule A thereto, relating to the sale by the Company of $700 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Notes and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes.
 
Certain underwriters and their affiliates have provided, are currently providing and in the future may continue to provide investment banking, commercial banking and other financial services to us in the ordinary course of business for which they have received and will receive customary compensation. In particular, Bank of America, N.A. (an affiliate of Banc of America Securities LLC) acts as Administrative Agent and a lender, and Banc of America Securities LLC is a lender and acted as sole book manager, for our credit facility maturing December 18, 2011. Bank of America, N.A. acts as Administrative Agent, Letter of Credit Issuer, and a lender, and Bank of America Securities LLC acted as sole lead arranger and sole book manager, for our $1 billion credit facility maturing December 13, 2011. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch (an affiliate of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc.) is a lender for our credit facility maturing December 18, 2011. Wells Fargo Bank, NA (an affiliate of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC) is a lender for our credit facility maturing December 18, 2011 and for our $1 billion credit facility maturing December 13, 2011.
 
The Underwriting Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1, the Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and the First Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2. The descriptions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture herein are qualified by reference thereto.
 
Item 2.03.
  
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation of a Registrant.
 
The information included in Item 1.01(b) above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The agreements included as exhibits to this report contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and:
 
Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. The Company acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing general disclaimer, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of material information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this report not misleading. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this report and the Company's other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
St. Jude Medical, Inc.
 
$700,000,000 3.750% Senior Notes due 2014
$500,000,000 4.875% Senior Notes due 2019
 
 
UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT   July 23, 2009
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
Underwriting Agreement
 
July 23, 2009
Banc of America Securities LLC
Bank of America Tower
One Bryant Park
New York , NY 10036
As Representative of the
Several Underwriters listed
in Schedule A hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Introductory.
St. Jude Medical, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "
Company
"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the "
Underwriters
"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.750% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "2019 Notes" and, together with the 2014 Notes, the "
Notes
"). Banc of America Securities LLC ("
BAS
") has agreed to act as representative of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "
Representative
") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of July 28, 2009 (the "
Base Indenture
"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "
Trustee
"). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture, dated as of July 28, 2009 (the "
Supplemental Indenture
" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "
Indenture
"), between the Company and the Trustee. The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "
Depositary
"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the "
DTC Agreement
"), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "
Commission
") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160726), which contains a base prospectus (the "
Base Prospectus
"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "
Securities Act
"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of
 
effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "
Registration Statement
." Any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act is called the "
Rule 462(b) Registration Statement
" and from and after the date and time of filing of the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement the term "Registration Statement" shall include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. The term "
Prospectus
" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "
Execution Time
") by the parties hereto. The term "
Preliminary Prospectus
" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 3:45 p.m. on July 23, 2009 (the "
Initial Sale Time
"). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("
EDGAR
").
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "
Exchange Act
"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
 
1
SECTION
.
Representations and Warranties of the Company
The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a "
Representation Date
"), as follows:
a)         
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are
2
contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "
Trust Indenture Act
").
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representative expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representative consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
b)        
Disclosure Package.
The term "
Disclosure Package
" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated July 23, 2009, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectus as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (the "
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"), identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representative consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
c)         
Incorporated Documents
. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will
3
comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
d)        
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
. (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
e)         
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
. (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
f)         
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
. Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representative as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representative and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representative consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
 
4
g)        
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representative and included in Annex I hereto or the Registration Statement.
h)        
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
i)         
The Underwriting Agreement.
This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
j)         
Authorization of the Indenture
. The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized by the Company and when executed and delivered by the Company will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
k)        
Authorization of the Notes.
The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
l)         
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
m)       
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," "Description of Debt Securities" and "Certain United States Federal Tax Considerations", in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
n)        
No Material Adverse Change
. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure
5
Package, (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, properties, operations or, to the knowledge of the Company, in its business prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "
Material Adverse Change
"); (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have entered into any transactions or agreements, other than in the ordinary course of business or as are disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one entity; and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company or, except for dividends paid to the Company or other subsidiaries, any of its subsidiaries on any class of capital stock or repurchase or redemption by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any class of capital stock.
o)        
Independent Accountants.
Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended January 3, 2009, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
p)        
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of Regulation S-X, as promulgated by the Commission and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The financial data set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the section "Capitalization" fairly present the information set forth therein on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
q)        
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
The Company does not own or control, directly or indirectly, any corporation, association or other entity other than the subsidiaries listed in documents furnished to you by the Company. The subsidiaries listed in Schedule B hereto are the only significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X) of the Company (the "Significant Subsidiaries"). Each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing (as applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact
6
business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (a "
Material Adverse Effect
"). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.
r)         
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
. The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus).
s)         
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("
Default
") under its articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of such subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "
Existing Instrument
") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of such subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations that would not individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and
7
performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, and except as may be required by applicable state securities or blue sky laws of any state or foreign jurisdiction. As used herein, a "
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
t)         
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which if determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
u)        
Labor Matters.
No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, or to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened or imminent, except as would not individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
v)        
Intellectual Property Rights.
Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company or its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, patentable inventions, trade secret, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "
Intellectual Property
") necessary for the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or as would not individually, or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) no party has been granted an exclusive license to use any portion of such Intellectual Property owned by the Company; (ii) to the Company's knowledge, there is no infringement by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property owned or exclusively licensed by the Company; (iii) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property; (iv) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; and (v) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others.
w)       
All Necessary Permits, etc.
The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations, permits, approvals, consents or other authorizations would
8
not individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could result in a Material Adverse Effect.
x)        
Title to Properties.
The Company and each of its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above (or elsewhere in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases except as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
y)        
Tax Law Compliance.
The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by them in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made appropriate provisions in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
z)         
Company Not an Investment Company.
The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
aa)       
Compliance with Reporting Requirements
. The Company is subject to and in compliance in all material respects with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
bb)      
Insurance.
Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are generally deemed by the Company to be customary for their businesses including, but not limited to, policies covering real and personal property owned or leased by the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries against theft, damage, destruction, acts of vandalism and earthquakes. All such policies are in full force and effect. The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies
9
and instruments in all material respects. Other than in the ordinary course of business or as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and except as would not individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause, and (ii) neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any subsidiary will not be able (i) to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (ii) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct its business as now conducted and at a cost that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
cc)       
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
dd)      
Related Party Transactions.
There are no material related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required to be described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
ee)       
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
Except as otherwise described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA (as defined below), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
"
FCPA
" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
ff)       
Stock Options
. With respect to the stock options (the "
Stock Options
") granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (the "
Company Stock Plans
"), (i) each Stock Option intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the "
Grant Date
") by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written
10
consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Company Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Company securities are traded, (iv) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the applicable Grant Date and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and disclosed in the Company's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws. The Company has not knowingly granted, and there is no and has been no policy or practice of the Company of granting, Stock Options prior to, or otherwise coordinate the grant of Stock Options with, the release or other public announcement of material information regarding the Company or its subsidiaries or their results of operations or prospects.
gg)      
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "
Money Laundering Laws
") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
hh)      
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("
OFAC
"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
ii)        
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation, order, permit or other requirement relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including without limitation, laws and regulations relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum and petroleum products (collectively, "
Materials of Environmental Concern
"), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Materials of Environment Concern (collectively, "
Environmental Laws
"), which violation includes, but is not limited to, noncompliance with any permits or other governmental authorizations required for the operation of the business of the
11
Company or its subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions thereof, nor has the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any written communication, whether from a governmental authority, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any Environmental Law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in Material Adverse Effect; (ii) there is no claim, action or cause of action filed with a court or governmental authority, no investigation with respect to which the Company has received written notice, and no written notice by any person or entity alleging potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental responses costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, attorneys' fees or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or release into the environment, of any Material of Environmental Concern at any location owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, now or in the past (collectively, "
Environmental Claims
"), pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) to the best of the Company's knowledge, there are no past, present or anticipated future actions, activities, circumstances, conditions, events or incidents, including, without limitation, the release, emission, discharge, presence or disposal of any Material of Environmental Concern, that reasonably could result in a violation of any Environmental Law, require expenditures to be incurred pursuant to Environmental Law, or form the basis of a potential Environmental Claim against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or against any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (iv) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any pending or threatened proceeding under Environmental Law to which a governmental authority is a party and which is reasonably likely to result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
jj)        
ERISA Compliance.
None of the following events has occurred or exists: (i) a failure to fulfill the obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to a Plan (as defined below), determined without regard to any waiver of such obligations or extension of any amortization period; (ii) an audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any other federal or state governmental agency or any foreign regulatory agency with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (iii) any breach of any contractual obligation, or any violation of law or applicable qualification standards, with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the following events has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur: (i) a material increase in the aggregate amount of contributions required to be made to all Plans in the current fiscal year of the Company compared to the amount of such contributions made in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (ii) a material increase in the Company's "accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations" (within the meaning of Statement of Financial Accounting
12
Standards 106) compared to the amount of such obligations in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (iii) any event or condition giving rise to a liability under Title IV of ERISA that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (iv) the filing of a claim by one or more employees or former employees of the Company related to their employment that could have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Plan" means a plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA with respect to which any member of the Company may have any liability.
kk)      
Brokers
. Except for the Underwriters, there is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
ll)        
No Outstanding Loans or Other Indebtedness
. There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company, except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
mm)    
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
. The Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its directors and officers are, and have been, in material compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
").
nn)      
Statistical and Market Related Data
. Nothing has come to the attention of the Company that has caused the Company to believe that the statistical and market-related data included in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus is not based on or derived from sources which the Company believes are reliable and accurate in all material respects; it being understood, however, that the Company has not conducted any independent investigation of the accuracy thereof.
oo)      
Internal Controls and Procedures.
The Company maintains (i) effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
pp)      
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
 
13
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
2
SECTION
.
  
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
a)   
The Notes.
The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.249% of the principal amount of the 2014 Notes and 98.080% of the principal amount of the 2019 Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
b)  
The Closing Date.
Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, 340 Madison Avenue, New York, NY, 10173 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representative) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on July 28, 2009, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "
Closing Date
").
c)   
Public Offering of the Notes.
The Representative hereby advises the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representative, in its sole judgment, has determined is advisable and practicable.
d)  
Payment for the Notes.
Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
It is understood that the Representative has been authorized, for its own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representative may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representative by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
e)   
Delivery of the Notes.
The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representative for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representative shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representative may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
 
14
3
SECTION
.
  
Covenants of the Company.
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
a)   
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) will promptly notify the Representative, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
b)  
Filing of Amendments.
During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the "
Prospectus Delivery Period
"), the Company will give the Representative notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representative with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representative or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
c)   
Delivery of Registration Statements.
The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
d)  
Delivery of Prospectuses.
The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may
 
15
reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
e)   
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
. The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representative of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
f)   
Blue Sky Compliance.
The Company shall cooperate with the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, as the Underwriters may reasonably request from time to time, to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representative, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign corporation. The Company will advise the Representative promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
 
16
g)  
Use of Proceeds.
The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
h)  
Depositary.
The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
i)   
Earnings Statement
. As soon as practicable, the Company will make generally available to its security holders and to the Representative an earnings statement (which need not be audited) covering the twelve-month period beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158 of the Securities Act) of the Registration Statement.
j)   
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
k)  
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on
the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representative (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representative), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" or liquidate or decrease a "call equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of, transfer or hedge (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition of), or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
l)   
Final Term Sheet
. The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit E hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "
Final Term Sheet
"). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
m) 
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
. The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representative, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representative shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representative is hereinafter referred to as a "
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat,
17
as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(l).
n)  
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline.
If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "
Renewal Deadline
") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representative. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representative, and will use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 120 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Notes. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
o)  
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representative, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representative, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representative of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
p)  
Filing Fees
. The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
q)  
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Company will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the
18
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
r)   
DTC
. The Company will cooperate with the Representative and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC.
s)   
No Manipulation of Price.
The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
The Representative, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in its sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
4
SECTION
.
Payment of Expenses.
The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representative, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (vii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (viii) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (ix) all transportation and other expenses incurred by the Company in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Notes, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
19
5
SECTION
.
  
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
a)   
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
. The Registration Statement shall be effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
b)  
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
On the date hereof, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
c)   
Bring-down Comfort Letter
. On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
d)  
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
(i) in the judgment of the Representative there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change;
(ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in subsection (b) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representative, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and
 
20
(iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any written notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
e)   
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel for the Company, and Pamela S. Krop, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, each dated as of such Closing Date, the forms of which are attached as Exhibits A, B, C and D hereto.
f)   
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
g)  
Officers' Certificate.
On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or a Senior Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have reviewed the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, and this Agreement, to the effect set forth in subsection (d)(iii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
(iii) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(iv) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
h)  
Additional Documents.
On or before the Closing Date, the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale
 
21
of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9, 13 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
6
SECTION
.
  
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative pursuant to Section 5 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representative and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representative and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
7
SECTION
.
  
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
8
SECTION
.
  
Indemnification.
(a)
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by BAS) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action;
provided, however
, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to
22
the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Underwriters consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(b)
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are (i) the names of such Underwriter as presented on the front and back cover of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and (ii) the statements set forth under the caption "Underwriting" in the table immediately following the first paragraph thereunder, the first paragraph under the subsection entitled "Commissions and Discounts" and the third sentence under the subsection entitled "New Issue of Notes" each as set forth in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c)
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party
23
under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any liability other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party, and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by BAS in the case of Section 8(b)), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d)
Settlements.
The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time
24
an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (i) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (ii) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
9
SECTION
.
  
Contribution.
If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions or alleged statements or alleged omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
25
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
10
SECTION
.
  
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representative with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representative and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this
26
Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
11
SECTION
.
  
Termination of this Agreement.
Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representative is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability on the part of (a) the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Representative and the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof or (b) any Underwriter to the Company.
12
SECTION
.  
No Fiduciary Duty
. The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
 
27
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
13
SECTION
.
  
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
The respective indemnities, contributions, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
14
SECTION
.
Notices.
  All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
If to the Representative:
Banc of America Securities LLC
Bank of America Tower
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 212-901-7881
Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal
 
with a copy to:
McDermott Will & Emery LLP
340 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10173
Facsimile: 212-547-5444
Attention: Stephen E. Older, Esq.
Barbara Jones, Esq.
 
If to the Company:
St. Jude Medical, Inc.
One St. Jude Medical Drive
St. Paul, Minnesota 55117
Facsimile: 651-481-7690
Attention: Corporate Secretary
 
28
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, New York 10036
Facsimile: 212-735-2000
Attention: Stacy J. Kanter, Esq.
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
15
SECTION
.
  
Successors.
This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
16
SECTION
.
  
Partial Unenforceability.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
17
SECTION
.
  
Governing Law Provisions.
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
18
SECTION
.
  
General Provisions.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof.
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the
 
29
Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
30
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representative as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
 
Acting as Representative of the
several Underwriters named in
the attached Schedule A.
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
Sch-A-1
SCHEDULE B
 
Significant Subsidiaries
 
St. Jude Medical Puerto Rico LLC
St. Jude Medical, S.C., Inc.
SJM International, Inc.
Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc.
SJM Coordination Center BVBA
 
 
Sch-B-1
ANNEX I
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
St. Jude Medical, Inc. Final Term Sheet attached as Exhibit E hereto.
 
 
 
Annex-I-1
EXHIBIT A
Form of Opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
1.   The Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company, to the extent such execution and delivery are governed by the laws of the State of New York.
2.   The Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, respectively, to the extent such execution and delivery are governed by the laws of the State of New York, and each is a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
3.   The execution and delivery by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents, and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the issuance and sale of the Securities, will not (i) constitute a violation of, or a breach or default under, the terms of any Applicable Contract or (ii) violate or conflict with, or result in any contravention of, any Applicable Law or any Applicable Order. We do not express any opinion, however, as to whether the execution and delivery by the Company or performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents will constitute a violation of, or a default under, any covenant, restriction or provision with respect to financial ratios or tests or any aspect of the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
4.   No Governmental Approval, which has not been obtained or taken and is not in full force and effect, is required to authorize, or is required for, (i) the execution or delivery of each of the Transaction Documents by the Company or (ii) the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby.
5.   The Securities have been duly executed by the Company to the extent such execution is governed by the laws of the State of New York, and when duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
6.   The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus Supplement under the captions "Description of Debt Securities" and "Description of the Notes," insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the Indenture and the Securities, fairly summarize such provisions in all material respects.
7.   The Company is not and, solely after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
A-1
EXHIBIT B
Negative Assurance Letter of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
1.   Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement, the Registration Statement became effective upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462 of the Securities Act and, pursuant to Section 309 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, and such counsel has been orally advised by the Commission that no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and, to such counsel's knowledge, no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission.
2.   Such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants of the Company and representatives of the Underwriters, and McDermott Will & Emery LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the General Disclosure Package and related matters were discussed. Such counsel did not participate in the preparation of the Incorporated Documents but has, however, reviewed such documents and discussed the business and affairs of the Company with officers and other representatives of the Company. Such counsel does not pass upon, or assume any responsibility for, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package and have made no independent check or verification thereof (except to the limited extent referred to in paragraph 6 of our opinion to you dated the date hereof and in our opinion with respect to disclosure in the Prospectus under the caption "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" dated the date hereof).
On the basis of the foregoing, (i) the Registration Statement, at the Applicable Time and
the Prospectus, as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement, appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations (except that in each case we do not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom or the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1")) and (ii) no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that the Registration Statement, at the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus, as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement and as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that in each case such counsel does not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom, the report of management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or the auditors' attestation report thereon, or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including the Form T 1).
 
B-1
In addition, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that the General Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that such counsel does not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom, the report of management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or the auditors' attestation report thereon, or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including the Form T 1).
 
B-2
EXHIBIT C
Tax Opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, such counsel is of the opinion that under current U.S. federal income tax law, although the discussion set forth in the Disclosure Package (as defined in the Underwriting Agreement) and the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Certain United States. Federal Income Tax Considerations" does not purport to discuss all possible U.S. federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or disposition of the Securities, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that are anticipated to be material to holders who purchase the Securities pursuant to the Prospectus Supplement, subject to the qualifications set forth in such discussion.
 
C-1
EXHIBIT D
Opinion of Pamela S. Krop, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
of the Company
 
1.         The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
2.         The Base Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
3.         The Securities have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
4.         The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota, with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and Prospectus.
5.         The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdiction where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.         The statements in Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 2009 under the caption "Item 3: Legal Proceedings," insofar as such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, have been reviewed by such counsel and fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
7.         The Company has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Transaction Documents and to perform its obligations thereunder; and all corporate action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken.
8.         The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses except where the failure to possess such certificates, licenses, authorizations, permits, approvals, consents and other authorizations would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and to the best of such counsel's knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
D-1
9.         Each Significant Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity in good standing (to the extent applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, and each has corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity to transact business and is in good standing (as applicable) in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing (as applicable) would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
10.       The Company's execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (i) will not result in any violation under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or the articles of incorporation, charter or by laws of any Significant Subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is subject, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any of its or their properties, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such breaches, Defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
11.       To the knowledge of such counsel, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that are required to be disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus pursuant to Item 103 of Regulation S-K of the Rules and Regulations that are not so disclosed.
12.       To the knowledge of such counsel, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary (A) is in violation of (i) its articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws or (ii) any statute, law, rule, judgment, regulation, order or decree applicable to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any of its or their properties or (B) is in Default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any Existing Instrument, except with respect to clauses (A)(ii) and (B) only, for such violations or Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
13.       Each document filed pursuant to the Exchange Act (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered) and incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by
 
D-2
reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus complied when so filed as to form in all material respects with the Exchange Act.
 
14.       Such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants for the Company and representatives of the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, and related matters were discussed. Such counsel does not pass upon, or assume any responsibility for, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus and has made no independent check or verification thereof (except to the limited extent referred to in 6 paragraph above). On the basis of the foregoing, nothing has come to such counsel's attention that has caused such counsel to believe that the Registration Statement, at the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus, as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement and as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that in each case such counsel does not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom, or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including the Form T-1).
 
In addition, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts have come to such counsel's attention that have caused such counsel to believe that the Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that such counsel does not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including the Form T-1).
 
D-3
EXHIBIT E
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
Final Term Sheet
 
E-1
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
 
The Issuer has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (including a base prospectus dated July 22, 2009, as supplemented by a preliminary prospectus supplement, dated July 23, 2009, the "Prospectus") with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the Prospectus and the documents incorporated therein by reference that the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and this offering. You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at
www.sec.gov
. Alternatively, the Issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the Prospectus and any document incorporated by reference in the Prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-800-294-1322, or you may e-mail a request to
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
.
Any legends, disclaimers or other notices that may appear below are not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such legends, disclaimers or other notices have been automatically generated as a result of this communication having been sent via Bloomberg or another system.
 
 
E-2

Exhibit 4.1
Note: This Table of Contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
           dated as of July 28, 2009, between , a Minnesota corporation (the "Corporation"), and U.S. Bank National Association, a state banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee").
INDENTURE
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
          WHEREAS, the Corporation has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of unsecured debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities") in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series as provided in this Indenture; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Corporation, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
          NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
          That, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof for the equal and proportionate benefit of all of the present and future Holders of the Securities, each party agrees and covenants as follows:
          Section 1.1      
Definitions.
           "Affiliate," with respect to any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
           "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
           "Attributable Debt" means, in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of any particular time, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease involved in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as determined in good faith by us) of the obligation of the lessee thereunder for rental payments (excluding, however, any amounts required to be paid by such lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges or any amounts required to be paid by such lessee thereunder contingent upon the amount of sales, maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges) during the remaining term of such lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended).
           "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors, or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, of the Corporation.
           "Board Resolution" means a resolution of the Board of Directors or of a committee or person to which or to whom the Board of Directors has properly delegated the appropriate authority, a copy of which has been certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Trustee.
           "Business Day," when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
           "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as in effect on the date hereof.
           "Company Order" means a written order signed in the name of the Corporation by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Executive Vice President, or Senior Vice President, and (ii) the Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Controller, Assistant Controller, Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, and delivered to the Trustee.
           "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting (1) all current liabilities (excluding the amount of those which are by their terms extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than 12 months after the date as of which the amount is being determined) and (2) all customer lists, computer software, licenses, patents, patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, goodwill, capitalized research and development costs and other like intangibles, treasury stock and unamortized debt discount and expense, and all other like intangible assets, all as stated on the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated balance sheet preceding the date of determination and determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
           "Corporation" means the Person named as the "Corporation" in this Indenture until a successor Person shall become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Corporation" means the successor Person.
           "Corporate Trust Office," or other similar term, means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at U.S. Bank National Association, 60 Livingston Avenue, EP-MN-WS3C, St. Paul, MN 55107-2292 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Corporation, or the principal corporate trust officer of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Corporation).
           "Currency" means U.S. Dollars or Foreign Currency.
           "Debt" means any and all of the obligations of a Person for money borrowed which in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability as of the date of which the Debt is to be determined.
           "Default" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 10.3.
           "Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, The Depository Trust Company or such other Person as may be designated as Depositary by the Corporation pursuant to Section 3.1, until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used in respect of the Securities on any such series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
           "Discharge" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 11.3.
           "Exchange Act" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder and any statute successor thereto, in each case, as amended from time to time.
           "Foreign Currency" means a currency issued by the government of any country other than the United States or a composite currency, the value of which is determined by reference to the values of the currencies of any group of countries.
           "Global Security" means a Security evidencing all or a part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series in accordance with Section 3.3, and bearing the legend prescribed in Section 2.1.
           "Holder" or "Securityholder" means the person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
           "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.1; provided, however, that if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this Indenture due to the appointment of one or more separate Trustees for any one or more separate series of Securities, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to such series of Securities for which any such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 3.1, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such person had become such Trustee, but to which such person, as such Trustee, was not a party; provided, further that in the event that this Indenture is supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto which are only applicable to certain series of Securities, the term "Indenture" for a particular series of Securities shall only include the supplemental indentures applicable thereto.
           "Individual Securities" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.1(p).
           "Interest Payment Date" when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
           "Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, lien (statutory or other), charge or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) on or with respect to any property.
           "Maturity" when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repurchase at the option of the Holder or otherwise.
           "Officer" means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller or the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation.
           "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by any of (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the President or a Vice President, Treasurer or the Controller, and (ii) the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, and delivered to the Trustee.
           "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security that is issued with "original issue discount" within the meaning of Section 1273(a) of the Code and the regulations thereunder and any other Security designated by the Corporation as issued with original issue discount for United States federal income tax purposes.
           "outstanding," when used with respect to Securities means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
                     (a)     Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
                     (b)     Securities, or portions thereof, for which payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Corporation) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Corporation (if the Corporation shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities or Securities as to which the Corporation's obligations have been Discharged; provided, however, that if such Securities, or portions thereof, are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
                     (c)     Securities that have been paid pursuant to Section 3.7(b) or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a protected purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Corporation;
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities of a series outstanding have performed any action hereunder, Securities owned by the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series or any Affiliate of the Corporation or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such action, only Securities of such series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Corporation or any other obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of the Corporation or of such other obligor. In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities of a series have performed any action hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be outstanding for such purpose shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 7.2 and the principal amount of a Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that shall be deemed to be outstanding for such purpose shall be the amount calculated pursuant to Section 3.12(b).
           "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or of counsel to the Corporation, or may be other counsel that meets the requirements provided for in Section 16.3.
           "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a company, a voluntary association, a partnership, a trust, a joint venture, a limited liability company, an unincorporated organization, or a government or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof.
           "Place of Payment" means, when used with respect to the Securities of any series, the place or places where the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified pursuant to Section 3.1.
           "Predecessor Security" means, with respect to any Security, every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security, and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.8 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
           "principal" of a Security means the principal of the Security plus, when appropriate, the premium, if any, on the Security.
           "Redemption Date" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
           "Redemption Price" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
           "Responsible Officers" of the Trustee hereunder shall mean any vice president, any assistant vice president, any trust officer, any assistant trust officer or any other officer associated with the corporate trust department of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers, and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
           "Restricted Property" means, as to any particular series of Securities, any manufacturing facility or plant owned, or leased, by the Corporation or a Restricted Subsidiary and located within the United States, the gross book value (including related land, machinery and equipment without deduction of any depreciation reserves) of which is not less than 1% of Consolidated Tangible Net Assets as stated on the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated balance sheet preceding the date of determination, other than any such manufacturing facility or plant which the Board of Directors reasonably determines is not material to the operation of the Corporation's business and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
           "Restricted Subsidiary" means, as to any particular series of Securities, a Subsidiary (as defined below) (i) which is a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the U.S. federal securities laws or (ii) which owns a Restricted Property; provided, however, that the term shall not include any Subsidiary which is solely or primarily engaged in the business of providing or obtaining financing for the sale or lease of products sold or leased by us or any Subsidiary.
           "Sale-Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement whereby the Corporation or a Restricted Subsidiary now owns or hereafter acquires a Principal Property, sells or transfers it to a person and contemporaneously leases it back from the Person.
           "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
           "Security Custodian" means the custodian with respect to any Global Security appointed by the Depositary, or any successor Person thereto, and shall initially be the Paying Agent.
           "Securities" means the securities issued pursuant to this Indenture from time to time, as such securities may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
           "Securities Act" shall mean the United States Securities Act of 1933, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
           "Stated Maturity" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest, if any, thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest, if any, is due and payable.
          "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the outstanding shares or other interests having voting power is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or one or more of the Subsidiaries of such Person. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to Subsidiary or Subsidiaries under this Indenture shall refer to Subsidiaries of the Corporation.
          "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except as provided in Section 12.3 and except to the extent any amendment to the Trust Indenture Act expressly provides for application of the Trust Indenture Act as in effect on another date.
          "Trustee" means the Person named as such in this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such with respect to one or more series of Securities pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
          "Trust Officer" means a Vice President or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters.
          "United States" means the United States of America (including the States thereof and the District of Columbia), its territories and possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
          "U.S. Dollars" mean such currency of the United States as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
          Section 1.2     .
Other Definitions
          Section 1.3     . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of TIA
          "Commission" means the SEC.
          "indenture securities" means the Securities.
          "indenture security holder" means a Securityholder.
          "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
          "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
          "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Corporation.
          All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them.
          Section 1.4     . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
                                 (a)     a term has the meaning assigned to it;
                                 (b)     an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time unless a different time is established in the applicable series of Securities;
                                 (c)     "or" is not exclusive;
                                 (d)     words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
                                 (e)     references to "Section" or "Article" or other subdivision herein are references to a Section or Article or other subdivision of this Indenture;
                                 (f)      any gender used in this Indenture shall be deemed to include the neuter, masculine or feminine gender; and
                                 (g)     provisions apply to successive events and transactions.
          Section 2.1     .
Terms of the Securities
                    (a)     The Securities of each series shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and, subject to Section 3.3, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, and shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as the Corporation may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange on which any series of the Securities may be listed or of any automated quotation system on which any such series may be quoted, or to conform to usage, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
                    (b)     The terms and provisions of the Securities shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture, and, to the extent applicable, the Corporation and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
          Section 2.2     .
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
                    (a)     Only such of the Securities as shall bear thereon a certificate substantially in the form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication hereinafter recited, executed by the Trustee by manual signature, shall be valid or become obligatory for any purpose or entitle the Holder thereof to any right or benefit under this Indenture.
                    (b)     Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, except that any Global Security shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated in Section 3.1.
                    (c)     The form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by the Securities shall be substantially as follows:
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
          Section 2.3     . If at any time there shall be an Authenticating Agent appointed with respect to any series of Securities, then the Trustee's certificate of authentication by such Authenticating Agent to be borne by Securities of each such series shall be substantially as follows:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication by an Authenticating Agent
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to within-mentioned Indenture.
          Section 3.1     . The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. Additional Securities of any series of Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture may be authenticated and delivered hereunder at any time, having the same terms as, treated as a single class (for all purposes under this Indenture) with, and in aggregate principal amounts that exceed the aggregate principal amount of, such previously authenticated and delivered Securities.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
          The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to Board Resolution and, subject to Section 3.3, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
                    (a)     the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of such series from the Securities of all other series, except to the extent that additional Securities of an existing series are being issued);
                    (b)     any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of such series pursuant to Section 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 4.6 or 12.5);
                    (c)     the dates on which or periods during which the Securities of the series may be issued, and the dates on, or the range of dates within, which the principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of such series are or may be payable or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined or extended;
                    (d)     the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, whether such interest shall be payable in cash or additional Securities of the same series or shall accrue and increase the aggregate principal amount outstanding of such series (including if such Securities were originally issued at a discount), the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable, and the record dates for the determination of Holders to whom interest is payable on such Interest Payment Dates or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the right, if any, to extend or defer interest payments and the duration of such extension or deferral;
                    (e)     if other than U.S. Dollars, the Foreign Currency in which Securities of the series shall be denominated or in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of the series shall be payable and any other terms concerning such payment;
                    (f)     if the amount of payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method including, but not limited to, an index based on a Currency or Currencies other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
                    (g)     if the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Corporation or a Holder thereof, in a Currency other than that in which the Securities are denominated or stated to be payable without such election, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made and the time and the manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency in which the Securities are denominated or payable without such election and the Currency in which the Securities are to be paid if such election is made;
                    (h)     the place or places, if any, in addition to or instead of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, and where Securities of any series may be presented for registration of transfer, exchange or conversion, and the place or places where notices and demands to or upon the Corporation in respect of the Securities of such series may be made;
                    (i)     the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, if the Corporation is to have that option;
                    (j)     the obligation or right, if any, of the Corporation to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund, amortization or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the Currency or Currencies in which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
                    (k)     if other than denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
                    (l)     if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof;
                    (m)   the guarantors, if any, of the Securities of the series, and the extent of the guarantees (including provisions relating to seniority, subordination, and the release of the guarantors), if any, and any additions or changes to permit or facilitate guarantees of such Securities;
                    (n)     whether the Securities of the series are to be issued as Original Issue Discount Securities and the amount of discount with which such Securities may be issued;
                    (o)     provisions, if any, for the defeasance of Securities of the series in whole or in part and any addition or change in the provisions related to satisfaction and discharge;
                    (p)     whether the Securities of the series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the Depositary for such Global Security or Global Securities and the terms and conditions, if any, upon which interests in such Global Security or Global Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for the Individual Securities represented thereby in definitive form registered in the name or names of Persons other than such Depositary or a nominee or nominees thereof ("Individual Securities");
                    (q)     the date as of which any Global Security of the series shall be dated if other than the original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
                    (r)     the form of the Securities of the series;
                    (s)     if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities or property of any Person (including the Corporation), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable, and any additions or changes, if any, to permit or facilitate such conversion or exchange;
                    (t)     whether the Securities of such series are subject to subordination and the terms of such subordination;
                    (u)     any restriction or condition on the transferability of the Securities of such series;
                    (v)     any addition or change in the provisions related to compensation and reimbursement of the Trustee which applies to Securities of such series;
                    (w)     any addition or change in the provisions related to supplemental indentures set forth in Sections 12.2 and 12.4 which applies to Securities of such series;
                    (x)     provisions, if any, granting special rights to Holders upon the occurrence of specified events;
                    (y)     any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 7.2 and any addition or change in the provisions set forth in Article 7 which applies to Securities of the series;
                    (z)     any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article 5 which applies to Securities of the series; and
                    (aa)   any other terms of the Securities of such series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the TIA, but may modify, amend, supplement or delete any of the terms of this Indenture with respect to such series).
          All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical, except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto.
          Section 3.2     . In the absence of any specification pursuant to Section 3.1 with respect to Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable only as Securities in denominations of any integral multiple of $1,000, and shall be payable only in U.S. Dollars.
Denominations
          Section 3.3     .
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
                    (a)     The Securities shall be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by the manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Chief Executive Officer, President, one of its Vice Presidents or Treasurer. If the Person whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated and delivered, the Security shall nevertheless be valid.
                    (b)     At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Corporation may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Corporation to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities and, if required pursuant to Section 3.1, a supplemental indenture or Company Order setting forth the terms of the Securities of a series. The Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver such Securities without any further action by the Corporation. The Company Order shall specify the amount of Securities to be authenticated and the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated.
                    (c)     In authenticating the first Securities of any series and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Section 10.2) shall be fully protected in relying upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each prepared in accordance with Section 16.3 stating that the conditions precedent, if any, provided for in the Indenture have been complied with.
                    (d)     The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver the Securities under this Section 3.3 if the issue of the Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
                    (e)     Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.1 with respect to the Securities of such series.
                    (f)     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.1 and of this Section 3.3, if all of the Securities of any series are not to be originally issued at the same time, then the documents required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 3.3 must be delivered only once prior to the authentication and delivery of the first Security of such series;
                    (g)     If the Corporation shall establish pursuant to Section 3.1 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities that (i) shall represent an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such Global Securities, (ii) shall be registered, if in registered form, in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or Global Securities or the nominee of such Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect:
          The aggregate principal amount of each Global Security may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Security Custodian, as provided in this Indenture.
                    (h)     Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 3.1 for a Global Security in registered form must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as such Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation.
                    (i)     Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("Members") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary or by the Security Custodian under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Corporation, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar and any of their agents as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Corporation, the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Registrar or any of their agents from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Members, the operation of customary practices of the Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of an owner of a beneficial interest in any Global Security. The Holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Members and Persons that may hold interests through Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
                    (j)     No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in one of the forms provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee or by an Authenticating Agent by manual or facsimile signature of an authorized signatory of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
          Section 3.4     . The Corporation shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange, and where Securities of any series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange. The Corporation may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. There may be separate Registrars and Paying Agents for different series of Securities.
Registrar and Paying Agent
          The Corporation shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture. The agreements shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Corporation shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent. If the Corporation fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such.
          The Corporation initially appoints the Trustee to act as Registrar and Paying Agent.
          Section 3.5     . Each Paying Agent for any series of Securities shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders of Securities of the same series or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of or interest on such Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Corporation in making such payment. If the Corporation or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent with respect to a series of Securities, it shall segregate the money for that series and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Corporation at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon doing so the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
          Section 3.6     .
Transfer and Exchange
                    (a)     Transfer.
                    (b)     Exchange.
                    (c)     Exchange of Global Securities for Individual Securities. Except as provided below, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive Individual Securities.
                    (d)     All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Corporation evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered for such registration of transfer or exchange.
                    (e)     Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, or for exchange or payment shall (if so required by the Corporation, the Trustee or the Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation, the Trustee and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or by his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
                    (f)     No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities. The Corporation or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than those expressly provided in this Indenture to be made at the Corporation's own expense or without expense or charge to the Holders.
                    (g)     The Corporation shall not be required to (i) register, transfer or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the transmission of a notice of redemption of Securities of such series selected for redemption under Section 4.3 and ending at the close of business on the day of such transmission, or (ii) register, transfer or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
                    (h)     Prior to the due presentation for registration of transfer or exchange of any Security, the Corporation, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or any of their agents may deem and treat the Person in whose name a Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for all purposes whatsoever, and none of the Corporation, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or any of their agents shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
                    (i)     In case a successor Corporation ("Successor Company") has executed an indenture supplemental hereto with the Trustee pursuant to Article 16, any of the Securities authenticated or delivered pursuant to such transaction may, from time to time, at the request of the Successor Company, be exchanged for other Securities executed in the name of the Successor Company with such changes in phraseology and form as may be appropriate, but otherwise identical to the Securities surrendered for such exchange and of like principal amount; and the Trustee, upon Company Order of the Successor Company, shall authenticate and deliver Securities as specified in such order for the purpose of such exchange. If Securities shall at any time be authenticated and delivered in any new name of a Successor Company pursuant to this Section 3.7 in exchange or substitution for or upon registration of transfer of any Securities, such Successor Company, at the option of the Holders but without expense to them, shall provide for the exchange of all Securities at the time outstanding for Securities authenticated and delivered in such new name.
                    (j)     Each Holder of a Security agrees to indemnify the Corporation and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Security in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities laws.
                    (k)     The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
                    (l)     Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
          Section 3.7     .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
                    (a)     If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office or (ii) the Corporation and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Corporation and the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to them to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless, and neither the Corporation nor the Trustee receives notice that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, then the Corporation shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor, form, terms and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, that neither gain nor loss in interest shall result from such exchange or substitution.
                    (b)     In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Corporation in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay the amount due on such Security in accordance with its terms.
                    (c)     Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Corporation may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in respect thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
                    (d)     Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Corporation, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
                    (e)     The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
          Section 3.8     .
Temporary Securities
                    (a)     Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Corporation may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities that are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise reproduced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Any such temporary Security may be in global form, representing all or a portion of the outstanding Securities of such series. Every such temporary Security shall be executed by the Corporation and shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with the same effect, as the definitive Security or Securities in lieu of which it is issued.
                    (b)     If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Corporation will cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of such temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Corporation in a Place of Payment for such series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
                    (c)     Upon any exchange of a portion of a temporary Global Security for a definitive Global Security or for the individual Securities represented thereby pursuant to this Section 3.10 or Section 3.7, the temporary Global Security shall be endorsed by the Trustee to reflect the reduction of the principal amount evidenced thereby, whereupon the principal amount of such temporary Global Security shall be reduced for all purposes by the amount so exchanged and endorsed.
          Section 3.9     . Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of any series, all Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or credit against any sinking fund or otherwise shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and shall be promptly canceled by it and, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly canceled by it. The Corporation may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder that the Corporation may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall dispose of all canceled Securities held by it in accordance with its then customary procedures and deliver a certificate of such disposal to the Corporation upon its request therefor.
Cancellation
          Section 3.10     . Interest on any Security that is payable and is punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest notwithstanding the cancellation of such Security upon any transfer or exchange subsequent to the record date. Payment of interest on Securities shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1) or, at the option of the Corporation, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Registrar or, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee, by wire transfer to an account designated by the Holder.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
                    (a)     Any interest on any Security that is payable but is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant record date by virtue of his, her or its having been such a Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Corporation, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
          Subject to the provisions set forth herein relating to record dates, each Security delivered pursuant to any provision of this Indenture in exchange or substitution for, or upon registration of transfer of, any other Security shall carry all the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
          Section 3.11     . The Corporation may provide pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of any series that (a) the obligation, if any, of the Corporation to pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of any series in the Currency (the "Designated Currency") as may be specified pursuant to Section 3.1 is of the essence and agrees that, to the fullest extent possible under applicable law, judgments in respect of such Securities shall be given in the Designated Currency; (b) the obligation of the Corporation to make payments in the Designated Currency of the principal of and interest on such Securities shall, notwithstanding any payment in any other Currency (whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise), be discharged only to the extent of the amount in the Designated Currency that the Holder receiving such payment may, in accordance with normal banking procedures, purchase with the sum paid in such other Currency (after any premium and cost of exchange) on the business day in the country of issue of the Designated Currency or in the international banking community (in the case of a composite currency) immediately following the day on which such Holder receives such payment; (c) if the amount in the Designated Currency that may be so purchased for any reason falls short of the amount originally due, the Corporation shall pay such additional amounts as may be necessary to compensate for such shortfall; and (d) any obligation of the Corporation not discharged by such payment shall be due as a separate and independent obligation and, until discharged as provided herein, shall continue in full force and effect.
Judgments
          Section 3.12     .
Payment in Currencies
                    (a)     Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of any series, payment of the principal of and interest on Securities of such series will be made in U.S. Dollars.
                    (b)     For purposes of any provision of the Indenture where the Holders of outstanding Securities may perform an action that requires that a specified percentage of the outstanding Securities of all series perform such action and for purposes of any decision or determination by the Trustee of amounts due and unpaid for the principal of and interest on the Securities of all series in respect of which moneys are to be disbursed ratably, the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the outstanding Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency will be the amount in U.S. Dollars based upon exchange rates, determined as specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of such series, as of the date for determining whether the Holders entitled to perform such action have performed it or as of the date of such decision or determination by the Trustee, as the case may be.
                    (c)     Any decision or determination to be made regarding exchange rates shall be made by an agent appointed by the Corporation; provided, that such agent shall accept such appointment in writing and the terms of such appointment shall, in the opinion of the Corporation at the time of such appointment, require such agent to make such determination by a method consistent with the method provided pursuant to Section 3.1 for the making of such decision or determination. All decisions and determinations of such agent regarding exchange rates shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Corporation, the Trustee and all Holders of the Securities.
          Section 3.13     . The Corporation in issuing any Securities may use "CUSIP", "ISIN" or other similar numbers if then generally in use, and thereafter with respect to such series, the Trustee may use such numbers in any notice of redemption or exchange with respect to such series provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
          Section 3.14     . Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
          Section 3.15     For each series of Securities, the Trustee shall preserve in a current form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of Securities of that series. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Corporation shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee the information as is required pursuant to Section 14.3.
Securityholders' List.
          Section 4.1     . Redemption of Securities (other than pursuant to a sinking fund, amortization or analogous provision) permitted by the terms of any series of Securities shall be made (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if any such terms of a series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the terms of such series shall govern.
Applicability of this Article
          Section 4.2     .
Selection of Securities to be Redeemed
                    (a)     If the Corporation shall at any time elect to redeem all or any portion of the Securities of a series then outstanding, it shall at least 35 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Corporation (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select, by lot or in such other manner as the Trustee shall deem appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series; provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. In any case where more than one Security of such series is registered in the same name, the Trustee may treat the aggregate principal amount so registered as if it were represented by one Security of such series. The Trustee shall, as soon as practicable, notify the Corporation in writing of the Securities and portions of Securities so selected.
                    (b)     For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security that has been or is to be redeemed. If the Corporation shall so direct, Securities registered in the name of the Corporation, any Affiliate or any Subsidiary thereof shall not be included in the Securities selected for redemption.
          Section 4.3     . (a) Notice of redemption shall be given by the Corporation or, at the Corporation's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Corporation not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to the Holders of Securities of any series to be redeemed in whole or in part in the manner provided in Section 16.5. Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. Failure to give such notice, or any defect in such notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption, in whole or in part, shall not affect the sufficiency of any notice of redemption with respect to the Holder of any other Security of such series.
Notice of Redemption
                    (b)     All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed (including CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, if available) and shall state:
          Section 4.4     . On or prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Redemption Date for any Securities, the Corporation shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent an amount of money in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (except as provided pursuant to Section 3.1) sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of such Securities or any portions thereof that are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
          Section 4.5     . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, any Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price and from and after such date (unless the Corporation shall Default in the payment of the Redemption Price) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Corporation at the Redemption Price; provided, however, that (unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.1) installments of interest that have a Stated Maturity on or prior to the Redemption Date for such Securities shall be payable according to the terms of such Securities and the provisions of Section 3.10.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
          If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal thereof and premium, if any, thereon shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
          Section 4.6     . Any Security that is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the Corporate Trust Office or such other office or agency of the Corporation as is specified pursuant to Section 3.1 with, if the Corporation, the Registrar or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation, the Registrar and the Trustee duly executed by the Holder thereof or his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of like tenor and form, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered; except that if a Global Security is so surrendered, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Security, without service charge, a new Global Security in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Security so surrendered. In the case of a Security providing appropriate space for such notation, at the option of the Holder thereof, the Trustee, in lieu of delivering a new Security or Securities as aforesaid, may make a notation on such Security of the payment of the redeemed portion thereof.
Securities Redeemed in Part
          Section 5.1     . The Corporation shall duly and punctually pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each series of Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities and in this Indenture. To the extent lawful, the Corporation shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate borne by the Securities and shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate.
Payment of Securities
          Section 5.2     . The Corporation will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any new Debt if such Debt is secured by a Lien upon any Restricted Property or on the Capital Stock or Debt of any Restricted Subsidiary, without, in any such case, effectively providing that the Securities will be secured equally and ratably with such secured Debt; provided, however, that this restriction will not apply to:
Limitations on Liens
          The Corporation and any Restricted Subsidiary may, without securing the Securities, create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee secured Debt which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions; provided that, if after giving effect to such Debt, the aggregate of such secured Debt then outstanding (not including secured Debt permitted under the foregoing exceptions) plus the aggregate amount of Attributable Debt outstanding of Sale and Leaseback Transactions that would otherwise be prohibited by Section 5.3 below, does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
          Section 5.3     . The Corporation will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Restricted Property, except a lease for a period (including extensions or renewals at our option or the option of a Restricted Subsidiary) of three years or less. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction if:
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
          Section 5.4     . (a) The Corporation will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities, if any, an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of such series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Corporation in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Corporation will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Corporation shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Corporation hereby appoints the Trustee as Paying Agent to receive all presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Office or Agency for Certain Purposes
          (b)     The Corporation may also from time to time designate different or additional offices or agencies where the Securities of any series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes (in or outside of such Place of Payment), and may from time to time rescind any such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Corporation of its obligations described in the preceding paragraph. The Corporation will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such additional designation or rescission of designation and of any change in the location of any such different or additional office or agency. The Corporation shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Paying Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Corporation shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent. The Corporation or any Affiliate thereof may act as Paying Agent.
          Section 5.5     . The Corporation will preserve its corporate existence, but this covenant shall not require the Corporation to continue its corporate existence in the event of a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation in accordance with the provision of Article 6 hereof as a result of which the Corporation shall lose its corporate identity, or in the event of a sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of said Article 6. The Corporation will punctually pay and discharge, or cause to be paid and discharged, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon or assessed against it which are material to it provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall require the Corporation to pay any such tax, assessment, charge or levy so long as it shall in good faith contest the validity or the amount of the same by appropriate legal proceedings and stay any execution thereof.
Maintenance of Corporate Existence
          Section 5.6     . (a) If the Corporation or an Affiliate thereof shall at any time act as Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, then, on or before the date on which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series by their terms or as a result of the calling thereof for redemption shall become payable, the Corporation or such Affiliate will segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities or the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay such principal and premium, if any, or interest which shall have so become payable until such sums shall be paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will notify the Trustee of its action or failure to act in that regard. Upon any proceeding under any federal bankruptcy laws with respect to the Corporation or any Affiliate thereof, if the Corporation or such Affiliate is then acting as Paying Agent, the Trustee shall replace the Corporation or such Affiliate as Paying Agent.
Provisions as to Paying Agent
                    (b)     If the Corporation shall appoint, and at the time have, a Paying Agent for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any series of Securities, then prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date on which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series shall become payable as aforesaid, whether by their terms or as a result of the calling thereof for redemption, the Corporation will deposit with such Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal and premium, if any, or interest, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities or the Trustee, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee), the Corporation or any other obligor of such Securities will promptly notify the Trustee of its payment or failure to make such payment.
                    (c)     If the Paying Agent shall be other than the Trustee, the Corporation will cause such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 5.6, that such Paying Agent shall:
                    (d)     Anything in this Section 5.6 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a release, satisfaction or discharge of this Indenture or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Corporation or by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee as required by this Section 5.6, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Corporation or such Paying Agent.
                    (e)     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Corporation, in trust for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Corporation upon Company Order along with any interest that has accumulated thereon as a result of such money being invested at the direction of the Corporation, or (if then held by the Corporation) shall be discharged from such trust, and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Corporation for payment of such amounts without interest thereon, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Corporation as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Corporation cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Corporation.
          Section 5.7     . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, the Corporation shall furnish to the Trustee annually, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or vice president and treasurer as to his or her knowledge of the Corporation's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture (which compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture) and, in the event of any Default, specifying each such Default and the nature and status thereof of which such person may have knowledge.
Annual Officers' Certificate to Trustee
          Section 6.1     . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, the Corporation will not consolidate with any other entity or accept a merger of any other entity into the Corporation or permit the Corporation to be merged into any other entity, or sell other than for cash or lease all or substantially all its assets to another entity, or purchase all or substantially all the assets of another entity, unless: (A) in case the Corporation shall consolidate with or merge into another Person (in a transaction in which the Corporation is not the surviving Person) or sell, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Corporation is merged or the Person which acquires by sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, or which leases, all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Corporation shall be a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered by such Person prior to or simultaneously with such consolidation, merger, sale or lease, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on all the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all other obligations to the Holders and the Trustee under this Indenture or under the Securities to be performed or observed by the Corporation; (B) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and (C) the Corporation will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets
          Upon any consolidation with or merger into any other entity, or any sale other than for cash, or any conveyance or lease of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation in accordance with this Section 6.1, the successor entity formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Corporation is merged or to which the Corporation is sold or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Corporation under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor entity had been named as the Corporation herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Corporation shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities, and from time to time such entity may exercise each and every right and power of the Corporation under this Indenture, in the name of the Corporation, or in its own name; and any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture required or permitted to be done by the Board of Directors or any officer of the Corporation may be done with like force and effect by the like board or officer of any entity that shall at the time be the successor of the Corporation hereunder. In the event of any such sale or conveyance, but not any such lease, the Corporation (or any successor entity which shall theretofore have become such in the manner described in this Section 6.1) shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and may thereupon be dissolved and liquidated.
          Section 7.1     . Except where otherwise indicated by the context or where the term is otherwise defined for a specific purpose, the term "Event of Default" as used in this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series shall mean one of the following described events unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in the manner contemplated in Section 3.1:
Events of Default
                    (a)     the failure of the Corporation to pay any installment of interest on any Security of such series when and as the same shall become payable, which failure shall have continued unremedied for a period of 30 days;
                    (b)     the failure of the Corporation to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Security of such series, when and as the same shall become payable, whether at Maturity as therein expressed, by call for redemption (otherwise than pursuant to a sinking fund), by declaration as authorized by this Indenture or otherwise;
                    (c)     the failure of the Corporation to pay a sinking fund installment, if any, when and as the same shall become payable by the terms of a Security of such series, which failure shall have continued unremedied for a period of 30 days;
                    (d)     the failure of the Corporation to perform any covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture (including any indenture supplemental hereto pursuant to which the Securities of such series were issued as contemplated by Section 3.1) (other than a covenant or agreement which has been expressly included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than that series and other than a covenant or agreement a default in the performance of which is elsewhere in this Section 7.1 specifically addressed), which failure shall not have been remedied, or without provision deemed to be adequate for the remedying thereof having been made, for a period of 90 days after written notice shall have been given to the Corporation by the Trustee or shall have been given to the Corporation and the Trustee by Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, specifying such failure, requiring the Corporation to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
                    (e)     the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Corporation in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Corporation or of substantially all the property of the Corporation or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days;
                    (f)     the commencement by the Corporation of a voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or the consent by the Corporation to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or the consent by the Corporation to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Corporation or of substantially all the property of the Corporation or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Corporation in furtherance of any action; or
                    (g)     the occurrence of any other Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series as provided in Section 3.1;
provided, however, that no event described in clause (d) or (other than with respect to a payment default) (g) above shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or until a written notice of any such event is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office, and such notice refers to the facts underlying such event, the Securities generally, the Corporation and the Indenture.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1, if the principal, premium, if any, or interest on any Security is payable in a Currency other than the Currency of the United States and such Currency is not available to the Corporation for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Corporation, the Corporation will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making such payment in the Currency of the United States in an amount equal to the Currency of the United States equivalent of the amount payable in such other Currency, as determined by the Corporation's agent in accordance with Section 3.12(c) hereof by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such Currency ("Exchange Rate"), as such Exchange Rate is reported or otherwise made available by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1, any payment made under such circumstances in the Currency of the United States where the required payment is in a Currency other than the Currency of the United States will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
          Section 7.2     .
Acceleration
                    (a)     Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, if any one or more of the above-described Events of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 7.1(e) or 7.1(f)) shall happen with respect to Securities of any series at the time outstanding, then, and in each and every such case, during the continuance of any such Event of Default, the Trustee or the Holders of 25% or more in principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding may declare the principal (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Securities of such series then Outstanding to be due and payable immediately by a notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(e) or 7.01(f) occurs and is continuing, then in every such case, the principal amount of all of the Securities of that series then outstanding shall automatically, and without any declaration or any other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become due and payable immediately. Upon payment of such amounts in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (subject to Section 7.1 and except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.1), all obligations of the Corporation in respect of the payment of principal of and interest on the Securities of such series shall terminate.
                    (b)     The provisions of Section 7.2(a), however, are subject to the condition that, at any time after the principal of all the Securities of such series, to which any one or more of the above-described Events of Default is applicable, shall have been so declared to be due and payable, and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided in this Article, the Event of Default giving rise to such declaration of acceleration shall, without further act, be deemed to have been waived, and such declaration and its consequences shall, without further act, be deemed to have been rescinded and annulled, if:
                    (c)     No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
                    (d)     For all purposes under this Indenture, if a portion of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Securities shall have been accelerated and declared due and payable pursuant to the provisions hereof, then, from and after such declaration, unless such declaration has been rescinded and annulled, the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Securities shall be deemed, for all purposes hereunder, to be such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, and payment of such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, together with interest, if any, thereon and all other amounts owing thereunder, shall constitute payment in full of such Original Issue Discount Securities.
          Section 7.3     . If the Corporation shall fail for a period of 30 days to pay any installment of interest on the Securities of any series or shall fail to pay the principal, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of such series when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Maturity, or by call for redemption (other than pursuant to the sinking fund), by declaration as authorized by this Indenture, or otherwise, or shall fail for a period of 30 days to make any required sinking fund payment as to a series of Securities, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Corporation will pay to the Paying Agent for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series then outstanding the whole amount which then shall have become due and payable on all the Securities of such series, with interest on the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and (so far as the same may be legally enforceable) on the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Securities of such series, and all amounts owing the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 10.1(a).
Other Remedies
          In case the Corporation shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceeding at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable out of the property of the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, wherever situated, in the manner provided by law. Every recovery of judgment in any such action or other proceeding, subject to the payment to the Trustee of all amounts owing the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 10.1, shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities which shall be the subject of such action or proceeding. All rights of action upon or under any of the Securities or this Indenture may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities and without the production of any thereof at any trial or any proceeding relative thereto.
          Section 7.4     . The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee hereunder, or of exercising any trust or power hereby conferred upon the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series, provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Section 10.1 and 10.2, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee being advised by counsel determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken or would be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining in such direction or would involve the Trustee in personal liability. Prior to any declaration accelerating the Maturity of the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such series of Securities at the time outstanding may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Securities of such series waive any past Default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences except a Default in the payment of interest or the principal of the Securities of such series. Upon any such waiver the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Whenever any Default or Event of Default hereunder shall have been waived as permitted by this Section 7.4, said Default or Event of Default shall for all purposes of the Securities of such series and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing.
Control by Securityholders; Waiver of Past Defaults
          Section 7.5     . No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any action, suit or proceeding at law or in equity for the execution of any trust hereunder or for the appointment of a receiver or for any other remedy hereunder, in each case with respect to an Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities, unless such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of one or more of the Events of Default herein specified with respect to such series of Securities, and unless also the Holders of 25% in principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding shall have requested the Trustee in writing to take action in respect of the matter complained of, and unless also there shall have been offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee, for 60 days after receipt of such notification, request and offer of indemnity, shall have neglected or refused to institute any such action, suit or proceeding; and such notification, request and offer of indemnity are hereby declared in every such case to be conditions precedent to any such action, suit or proceeding by any Holder of any Security of such series; it being understood and intended that no one or more of the Holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by his, her, its or their action to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and that every action, suit or proceeding at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained in the manner herein provided and for the equal benefit of all Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series; provided, however, that nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities of such series shall affect or impair the obligation of the Corporation, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of such series to the respective Holders of such Securities at the respective due dates in such Securities stated, or affect or impair the right, which is also absolute and unconditional, of such Holders to institute suit to enforce the payment thereof.
Limitation on Suits
          Section 7.6     . The Trustee is hereby appointed, and each and every Holder of the Securities, by receiving and holding the same, shall be conclusively deemed to have appointed the Trustee, the true and lawful attorney-in-fact of such Holder, with authority to make or file (whether or not the Corporation shall be in Default in respect of the payment of the principal of, or interest on, any of the Securities), in its own name and as trustee of an express trust or otherwise as it shall deem advisable, in any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization or other judicial proceeding relative to the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities or to their respective creditors or property, any and all claims, proofs of claim, proofs of debt, petitions, consents, other papers and documents and amendments of any thereof, as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder and of the Holders of the Securities allowed in any such proceeding and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to execute and deliver any and all other papers and documents and to do and perform any and all other acts and things, as it may deem necessary or advisable in order to enforce in any such proceeding any of the claims of the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder and of any of such Holders in respect of any of the Securities; and any receiver, assignee, trustee, custodian or debtor in any such proceeding is hereby authorized, and each and every taker or Holder of the Securities, by receiving and holding the same, shall be conclusively deemed to have authorized any such receiver, assignee, trustee, custodian or debtor, to make any such payment or delivery only to or on the order of the Trustee, and to pay to the Trustee any amount due it and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 10.1(a); provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize or empower the Trustee to consent to or accept or adopt, on behalf of any Holder of Securities, any plan of reorganization or readjustment affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize or empower the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder of any Securities in any such proceeding.
Trustee as Attorney-in-Fact
          Section 7.7     . Any moneys or properties collected by the Trustee with respect to a series of Securities under this Article 7 shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such moneys or properties and, in the case of the distribution of such moneys or properties on account of the Securities of any series, upon presentation of the Securities of such series, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
Priorities
          Any surplus then remaining shall be paid to the Corporation or as directed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
          Section 7.8     . All parties to this Indenture and each Holder of any Security, by such Holder's acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have agreed that any court may in its discretion require, in any action, suit or proceeding for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any action, suit or proceeding against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such action, suit or proceeding of an undertaking to pay the costs of such action, suit or proceeding, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such action, suit or proceeding, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section 7.8 shall not apply to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee, to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by any one or more Holders of Securities holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Securities of any series outstanding, or to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by any Holder of Securities of any series for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or the interest on, any of the Securities of such series, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Securities.
Undertaking for Costs
          Section 7.9     . No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities of any series is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of the Securities of any series to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Default or Event of Default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Default or Event of Default or an acquiescence therein; and every power and remedy given by this Article 7 to the Trustee and to the Holders of Securities of any series, respectively, may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities of such series, as the case may be. In case the Trustee or any Holder of Securities of any series shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and the proceedings for the enforcement thereof shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of waiver or for any other reason or shall have been adjudicated adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder of Securities, then and in every such case the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall severally and respectively be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, and thereafter all rights, remedies and powers of the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken, except as to any matters so waived or adjudicated.
Remedies Cumulative
          Section 8.1     . Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage or a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities or of any series of Securities may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage or majority have joined therein may be evidenced by (a) any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Securityholders in person, by an agent or by a proxy appointed in writing, including through an electronic system for tabulating consents operated by the Depositary for such series or otherwise (such action becoming effective, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, when such instruments or evidence of electronic consents are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Corporation), or (b) by the record of the Holders of Securities voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Securityholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Securityholders.
Evidence of Action of Securityholders
          Section 8.2     . Proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder or his, her or its agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:
Proof of Execution or Holding of Securities
                    (a)     The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument may be proved (i) by the certificate of any notary public or other officer in any jurisdiction who, by the laws thereof, has power to take acknowledgments or proof of deeds to be recorded within such jurisdiction, that the Person who signed such instrument did acknowledge before such notary public or other officer the execution thereof, or (ii) by the affidavit of a witness of such execution sworn to before any such notary or other officer. Where such execution is by a Person acting in other than his or her individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his or her authority.
                    (b)     The ownership of Securities of any series shall be proved by the Registrar of such Securities or by a certificate of the Registrar for such series.
                    (c)     The record of any Holders' meeting shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 9.6.
                    (d)     The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section 8.2 as it shall deem appropriate or necessary, so long as the request is a reasonable one.
                    (e)     If the Corporation shall solicit from the Holders of Securities of any series any action, the Corporation may, at its option fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders of Securities entitled to take such action, but the Corporation shall have no obligation to do so. Any such record date shall be fixed at the Corporation's discretion. If such a record date is fixed, such action may be sought or given before or after the record date, but only the Holders of Securities of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders of Securities for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities of such series have authorized or agreed or consented to such action, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities of such series shall be computed as of such record date.
          Section 8.3     .
Persons Deemed Owners
                    (a)     The Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest, if any, on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. All payments made to any Holder, or upon his, her or its order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon such Security.
                    (b)     None of the Corporation, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
          Section 8.4     . After an amendment, supplement, waiver or other action becomes effective as to any series of Securities, a consent to it by a Holder of such series of Securities is a continuing consent conclusive and binding upon such Holder and every subsequent Holder of the same Securities or portion thereof, and of any Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in place thereof, even if notation of the consent is not made on any such Security. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
Effect of Consents
          Section 9.1     . A meeting of Securityholders of any or all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article 9 for any of the following purposes:
Purposes of Meetings
                    (a)     to give any notice to the Corporation or to the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to consent to the waiving of any Default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Securityholders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article 8;
                    (b)     to remove the Trustee and nominate a successor trustee pursuant to the provisions of Article 10;
                    (c)     to consent to the execution of an Indenture or of indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.2; or
                    (d)     to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any one or more or all series, as the case may be, under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
          Section 9.2     . The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of all Securityholders of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken, to take any action specified in Section 9.1, to be held at such time and at such place as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of the Securityholders of a series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be mailed to Holders of Securities of such series at their addresses as they shall appear on the Registrar of the Corporation. Such notice shall be mailed not less than 20 nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call of Meetings by Trustee
          Section 9.3     . In case at any time the Corporation or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a series (or of all series, as the case may be) then outstanding that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of Securityholders of such series (or of all series), by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed the notice of such meeting within 20 days after receipt of such request, then the Corporation or such Securityholders may determine the time and the place for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 9.1, by mailing notice thereof as provided in Section 9.2.
Call of Meetings by Corporation or Securityholders
          Section 9.4     . To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Securityholders, a Person shall (a) be a Holder of one or more Securities affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting or (b) be a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by a Holder of one or more such Securities. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Securityholders shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Corporation and its counsel.
Qualifications for Voting
          Section 9.5     .
Regulation of Meetings
                    (a)     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Securityholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem fit.
                    (b)     The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Corporation or by Securityholders as provided in Section 9.3, in which case the Corporation or the Securityholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chair. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by majority vote of the meeting.
                    (c)     At any meeting of Securityholders of a series, each Securityholder of such series of such Securityholder's proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities of such series outstanding held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote other than by virtue of Securities of such series held by him or her or instruments in writing as aforesaid duly designating him or her as the Person to vote on behalf of other Securityholders. At any meeting of the Securityholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.2 or 9.3 the presence of Persons holding or representing Securities in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to take action upon the business for the transaction of which such meeting was called shall be necessary to constitute a quorum, and any such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of those present, whether or not constituting a quorum, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
          Section 9.6     . The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Securityholders of a series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts of the Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Securityholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more Persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as provided in Section 9.2. The record shall show the principal amounts of the Securities voting in favor of or against any resolution. The record shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Corporation and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee.
Voting
          Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
          Section 9.7     . Nothing contained in this Article 9 shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit, by reason of any call of a meeting of Securityholders of any series or any rights expressly or impliedly conferred hereunder to make such call, any hindrance or delay in the exercise of any right or rights conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Securityholders of such series under any of the provisions of this Indenture or of the Securities of such series.
No Delay of Rights by Meeting
          Section 10.1    . The Trustee accepts the trusts created by this Indenture upon the terms and conditions hereof, including the following, to all of which the parties hereto and the Holders from time to time of the Securities agree:
Rights of Trustees; Compensation and Indemnity
                    (a)     The Trustee shall be entitled to such compensation as the Corporation and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (including in any agent capacity in which it acts). The compensation of the Trustee shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Corporation shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon its request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee (including the reasonable expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
          The Corporation also agrees to indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee hereunder for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim, or expense incurred without its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder and the performance of its duties (including in any agent capacity in which it acts), as well as the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except those attributable to its own negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith. The Trustee shall notify the Corporation promptly of any claim of which it may seek indemnity. The Corporation shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have one separate counsel of its selection and the Corporation shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Corporation need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
          As security for the performance of the obligations of the Corporation under this Section 10.1(a), the Trustee shall have a lien upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust by the Trustee to pay principal of and interest on any Securities. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture to the contrary, the obligations of the Corporation to compensate and indemnify the Trustee under this Section 10.1(a) shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the termination of this Indenture and any satisfaction and discharge under Article 11. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in clause (4) or (5) of Section 7.1 occurs, the expenses and compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws.
                    (b)     The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform any duty hereunder either directly or by its agents and attorneys and shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
                    (c)     The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for the correctness of the recitals herein or in the Securities (except its certificates of authentication thereon) contained, all of which are made solely by the Corporation; and the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any manner whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities (except its certificates of authentication thereon), and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Corporation are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Corporation of any Securities, or the proceeds of any Securities, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture.
                    (d)     The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and, to the extent permitted by Section 10.2, any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered by the Trustee hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such Opinion of Counsel.
                    (e)     The Trustee, to the extent permitted by Section 10.2, may rely upon the certificate of the Secretary or one of the Assistant Secretaries of the Corporation as to the adoption of any Board Resolution or resolution of the stockholders of the Corporation, and any request, direction, order or demand of the Corporation mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by, and whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee may rely upon, an Officers' Certificate of the Corporation (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed).
                    (f)     Subject to Section 10.4, the Trustee or any agent of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 310(b) and 311 of the TIA, may otherwise deal with the Corporation with the same rights it would have had if it were not the Trustee or such agent.
                    (g)     Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Corporation.
                    (h)     Any action taken by the Trustee pursuant to any provision hereof at the request or with the consent of any Person who at the time is the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding in respect of such Security upon all future Holders thereof or of any Security or Securities which may be issued for or in lieu thereof in whole or in part, whether or not such Security shall have noted thereon the fact that such request or consent had been made or given.
                    (i)     Subject to the provisions of Section 10.2, the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
                    (j)     Subject to the provisions of Section 10.2, the Trustee shall not be under any obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders of the Securities, pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, unless one or more of the Holders of the Securities shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred by it therein or thereby.
                    (k)     Subject to the provisions of Section 10.2, the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within its discretion or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
                    (l)     Except with respect to Section 5.1, the Trustee shall have no duty to inquire as to the performance of the Corporation with respect to the covenants contained in Article 5. In addition, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of an Event of Default except (i) any Default or Event of Default occurring pursuant to Sections 5.1, 7.1(a), 7.1(b) or 7.1(c) or (ii) any Default or Event of Default of which the Trustee shall have received written notification or obtained actual knowledge.
                    (m)    Subject to the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 10.2, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, may, but shall not be required to, make further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit.
                    (n)     The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder.
          Section 10.2     .
Duties of Trustee
                    (a)     If one or more of the Events of Default specified in Section 7.1 with respect to the Securities of any series shall have happened, then, during the continuance thereof, the Trustee shall, with respect to such Securities, exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and shall use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
                    (b)     None of the provisions of this Indenture shall be construed as relieving the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that, anything in this Indenture contained to the contrary notwithstanding,
                    (c)     None of the provisions of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise to incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
                    (d)     Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 10.2.
          Section 10.3     . Within 90 days after the occurrence thereof, and if known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to the Holders of the Securities of a series notice of each Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series known to the Trustee, by transmitting such notice to Holders at their addresses as the same shall then appear on the Registrar of the Corporation, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice (the term "Default" being hereby defined to be the events specified in Section 7.1, which are, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, Events of Default as defined in said Section). Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities of such series when and as the same shall become payable, or to make any sinking fund payment as to Securities of the same series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice, if and so long as a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Securities of such series.
Notice of Defaults
          Section 10.4     .
Eligibility; Disqualification
                    (a)     The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition, and shall have a Corporate Trust Office. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.4, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
                    (b)     The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b); provided, however, that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA Section 310(b)(i) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Corporation are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA Section 310(b)(i) are met. If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the TIA, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the TIA and this Indenture. If Section 310(b) of the TIA is amended any time after the date of this Indenture to change the circumstances under which a Trustee shall be deemed to have a conflicting interest with respect to the Securities of any series or to change any of the definitions in connection therewith, this Section 10.4 shall be automatically amended to incorporate such changes.
          Section 10.5     . The Trustee, or any successor to it hereafter appointed, may at any time resign and be discharged of the trusts hereby created with respect to any one or more or all series of Securities by giving to the Corporation notice in writing. Such resignation shall take effect upon the appointment of a successor Trustee and the acceptance of such appointment by such successor Trustee. Any Trustee hereunder may be removed with respect to any series of Securities at any time by the filing with such Trustee and the delivery to the Corporation of an instrument or instruments in writing signed by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding, specifying such removal and the date when it shall become effective.
Registration
and Notice; Removal
          If at any time:
then, in any such case, (i) the Corporation by written notice to the Trustee may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to TIA Section 315(e), any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months (or, if it is a shorter period, the period since the initial issuance of the Securities of such series) may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
          Upon its resignation or removal, any Trustee shall be entitled to the payment of reasonable compensation for the services rendered hereunder by such Trustee and to the payment of all reasonable expenses incurred hereunder and all moneys then due to it hereunder. The Trustee's rights to indemnification provided in Section 10.1(a) shall survive its resignation or removal.
          Section 10.6     .
Successor Trustee by Appointment
                    (a)     In case at any time the Trustee shall resign, or shall be removed (unless the Trustee shall be removed as provided in Section 10.4(b), in which event the vacancy shall be filled as provided in said subdivision), or shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or if any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation with respect to the Securities of one or more series, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series) may be appointed by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that or those series then outstanding, by an instrument or instruments in writing signed in duplicate by such Holders and filed, one original thereof with the Corporation and the other with the successor Trustee; but, until a successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of Securities of that or those series as herein authorized, the Corporation, or, in case all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation shall be in the possession of one or more custodians or receivers lawfully appointed, or of trustees in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings (including a trustee or trustees appointed under the provisions of the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted), or of assignees for the benefit of creditors, such receivers, custodians, trustees or assignees, as the case may be, by an instrument in writing, shall appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. Subject to the provisions of Sections 10.4 and 10.5, upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series shall cease to be Trustee hereunder. After any such appointment other than by the Holders of Securities of that or those series, the Person making such appointment shall forthwith cause notice thereof to be mailed to the Holders of Securities of such series at their addresses as the same shall then appear on the Registrar of the Corporation but any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series so appointed shall, immediately and without further act, be superseded by a successor Trustee appointed by the Holders of Securities of such series in the manner above prescribed, if such appointment be made prior to the expiration of one year from the date of the mailing of such notice by the Corporation, or by such receivers, trustees or assignees.
                    (b)     If any Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall resign or be removed and a successor Trustee shall not have been appointed by the Corporation or by the Holders of the Securities of such series or, if any successor Trustee so appointed shall not have accepted its appointment within 30 days after such appointment shall have been made, the resigning Trustee at the expense of the Corporation may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If in any other case a successor Trustee shall not be appointed pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.6 within three months after such appointment might have been made hereunder, the Holder of any Security of the applicable series or any retiring Trustee at the expense of the Corporation may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Trustee. Such court may thereupon, in any such case, after such notice, if any, as such court may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.
                    (c)     Any successor Trustee appointed hereunder with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor Trustee and to the Corporation, or to the receivers, trustees, assignees or court appointing it, as the case may be, an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations with respect to such series of such predecessor Trustee with like effect as if originally named as Trustee hereunder, and such predecessor Trustee, upon payment of its charges and disbursements then unpaid, shall thereupon become obligated to pay over, and such successor Trustee shall be entitled to receive, all moneys and properties held by such predecessor Trustee as Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 10.1(a). Nevertheless, on the written request of the Corporation or of the successor Trustee or of the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding, such predecessor Trustee, upon payment of its said charges and disbursements, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee upon the trusts herein expressed all the rights, powers and trusts of such predecessor Trustee and shall assign, transfer and deliver to the successor Trustee all moneys and properties held by such predecessor Trustee, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 10.1(a); and, upon request of any such successor Trustee and the Corporation shall make, execute, acknowledge and deliver any and all instruments in writing for more fully and effectually vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations.
          Section 10.7     . Any Person into which the Trustee or any successor to it in the trusts created by this Indenture shall be merged or converted, or any Person with which it or any successor to it shall be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee or any such successor to it shall be a party, or any Person to which the Trustee or any successor to it shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor Trustee under this Indenture without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article 10. In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture with respect to one or more series of Securities, any of such Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered by the Trustee then in office, any successor to such Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; provided, however, that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
Successor Trustee by Merger
          Section 10.8     . Subject to Section 10.2, and subject to the provisions of Section 16.3 with respect to the certificates required thereby, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate with respect thereto delivered to the Trustee, and such Officers' Certificate, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
Right to Rely on Officers' Certificate
          Section 10.9     . The Trustee may appoint an agent (the "Authenticating Agent") reasonably acceptable to the Corporation to authenticate the Securities, and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, any such Authenticating Agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by the Authenticating Agent. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
          Each Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Article 10, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Article 10, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Article 10.
          Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Article 10, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
          An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Corporation. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Corporation. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.9, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Corporation and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section 10.9.
          The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section 10.9, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 10.1.
          Section 10.10    . Holders of Securities may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the TIA with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Corporation, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the TIA with respect to such communications.
Communications by Securityholders with Other Securityholders
          Section 11.1     . If, pursuant to Section 3.1, provision is made for the defeasance of Securities of a series and if the Securities of such series are denominated and payable only in U.S. Dollars (except as provided pursuant to Section 3.1), then the provisions of this Article shall be applicable except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of such series. Defeasance provisions, if any, for Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency may be specified pursuant to Section 3.1.
Applicability of Article
          Section 11.2     . This Indenture, with respect to the Securities of any series (if all series issued under this Indenture are not to be affected), shall, upon Company Order, cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities herein expressly provided for and rights to receive payments of principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Corporation, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when,
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
                    (a)     either:
and in the case of (A), (B) or (C) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.1) sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities for principal and premium, if any, and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities that have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; provided, however, in the event a petition for relief under federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, is filed with respect to the Corporation within 91 days after the deposit and the Trustee is required to return the moneys then on deposit with the Trustee to the Corporation, the obligations of the Corporation under this Indenture with respect to such Securities shall not be deemed terminated or discharged;
                    (b)     the Corporation has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Corporation; and
                    (c)     the Corporation has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such series have been complied with. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Corporation to the Trustee under Section 11.1 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (a)(i) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 11.7 shall survive.
          Section 11.3     . At the Corporation's option, either (a) the Corporation shall be deemed to have been Discharged (as defined below) from its obligations with respect to Securities of any series on the first day after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied (a "Defeasance") or (b) the Corporation shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Article 6 and Section 14.2 with respect to Securities of any series (and, if so specified pursuant to Section 3.1, any other restrictive covenant added for the benefit of such series pursuant to Section 3.1) at any time after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied (a "Covenant Defeasance") (such action under clauses (a) or (b) of this paragraph in no circumstance may be construed as an Event of Default under Section 7.1):
Defeasance upon Deposit of Moneys or U.S. Government Obligations
                    (a)     The Corporation shall have deposited or caused to be deposited irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series (i) money in an amount, or (ii) U.S. Government Obligations (as defined below) that through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii), sufficient to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including any mandatory sinking fund payments) of and interest on, the outstanding Securities of such series on the dates such installments of interest or principal and premium are due;
                    (b)     No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default resulting from the borrowing of funds and the grant of any related liens to be applied to such deposit);
                    (c)     The Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the Corporation's exercise of its option under this Section and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such action had not been exercised and, in the case of the Securities of such series being Discharged accompanied by a ruling to that effect received from or published by the Internal Revenue Service;
                    (d)     The Corporation shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance under this Indenture have been complied with;
                    (e)     If the monies or U.S. Government Obligations or combination thereof, as the case may be, deposited in accordance with clause (a) above are sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, on, and interest, if any, on and, to the extent provided in such clause (a), the Corporation shall have given the Trustee irrevocable instructions to redeem such Securities on such date and to provide notice of such redemption to Holders as provided in and pursuant to this Indenture; and
                    (f)     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 11.3, such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Corporation in connection therewith pursuant to Section 3.1.
          "Discharged" means that the Corporation shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, the Securities of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture relating to the Securities of such series (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Corporation, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except (A) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, from the trust fund described in clause (a) above, payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Corporation's obligations with respect to Securities of such series under Sections 3.6, 3.7, 3.4, 11.6 and 11.7 and (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder.
          "U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States the timely of payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States, that, in either case under clauses (i) or (ii) are not callable or redeemable at the action of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depositary receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
          Section 11.4     . The Trustee and any Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Corporation (or to its designee) upon Company Order any excess moneys or U.S. Government Obligations held by them at any time, including any such moneys or obligations held by the Trustee under any escrow trust agreement entered into pursuant to Section 11.6.
Repayment to Corporation
          Section 11.5     . The Corporation shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal or interest received on such U.S. Government Obligations.
Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations
          Section 11.6     . Any deposits with the Trustee referred to in Section 11.3 above shall be irrevocable (except to the extent provided in Sections 11.4 and 11.7) and shall be made under the terms of an escrow trust agreement. If any outstanding Securities of a series are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity, whether pursuant to any optional redemption provisions or in accordance with any mandatory or optional sinking fund requirement, the applicable escrow trust agreement shall provide therefor and the Corporation shall make such arrangements as are satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Corporation. The agreement shall provide that, upon satisfaction of any mandatory sinking fund payment requirements, whether by deposit of moneys, application of proceeds of deposited U.S. Government Obligations or, if permitted, by delivery of Securities, the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Corporation as excess moneys pursuant to Section 11.4 all funds or obligations then held under the agreement and allocable to the sinking fund payment requirements so satisfied.
Deposits to Be Held in Escrow
          If Securities of a series with respect to which such deposits are made may be subject to later redemption at the option of the Corporation or pursuant to optional sinking fund payments, the applicable escrow trust agreement may, at the option of the Corporation, provide therefor. In the case of an optional redemption in whole or in part, such agreement shall require the Corporation to deposit with the Trustee on or before the date notice of redemption is given funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Securities to be redeemed together with all unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date. Upon such deposit of funds, the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Corporation as excess funds pursuant to Section 11.4 all funds or obligations then held under such agreement and allocable to the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of exercise of optional sinking fund payment rights by the Corporation, such agreement shall, at the option of the Corporation, provide that upon deposit by the Corporation with the Trustee of funds pursuant to such exercise the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Corporation as excess funds pursuant to Section 12.04 all funds or obligations then held under such agreement for such series and allocable to the Securities to be redeemed.
          Section 11.7     .
Application of Trust Money
                    (a)     Neither the Trustee nor any other Paying Agent shall be required to pay interest on any moneys deposited pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, except such as it shall agree with the Corporation in writing to pay thereon. Any moneys so deposited for the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after the date of the Maturity of the Securities of such series or the date fixed for the redemption of all the Securities of such series at the time outstanding, as the case may be, shall be repaid by the Trustee or such other Paying Agent to the Corporation upon its written request and thereafter, anything in this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, any rights of the Holders of Securities of such series in respect of which such moneys shall have been deposited shall be enforceable only against the Corporation, and all liability of the Trustee or such other Paying Agent with respect to such moneys shall thereafter cease.
                    (b)     Subject to the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, any moneys which at any time shall be deposited by the Corporation or on its behalf with the Trustee or any other Paying Agent for the purpose of paying the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on any of the Securities shall be and are hereby assigned, transferred and set over to the Trustee or such other Paying Agent in trust for the respective Holders of the Securities for the purpose for which such moneys shall have been deposited; but such moneys need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          Section 11.8     . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, if the Securities of any series are payable in a Currency other than U.S. Dollars, the Currency or the nature of the government obligations to be deposited with the Trustee under the foregoing provisions of this Article shall be as set forth in the Officers' Certificate or established in the supplemental indenture under which the Securities of such series are issued.
Deposits of Non-U.S. Currencies
          Section 12.1     . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, the Corporation and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any one or more of or all of the following purposes:
Without Consent of Holders
                    (a)     to add to the covenants and agreements of the Corporation, to be observed thereafter and during the period, if any, in such supplemental indenture or indentures expressed, and to add Events of Default, in each case for the protection or benefit of the Holders of all or any series of the Securities (and if such covenants, agreements and Events of Default are to be for the benefit of fewer than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants, agreements and Events of Default are expressly being included for the benefit of such series as shall be identified therein), or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Corporation;
                    (b)     to delete or modify any Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities which are not then outstanding and the form and terms of which are being established pursuant to such supplemental indenture as permitted in Section 3.1 (and, if any such Event of Default is applicable to fewer than all such series of the Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable), and to specify the rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders of such Securities in connection therewith;
                    (c)     to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide, change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of or premium, if any, on Securities; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect;
                    (d)     to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture that is entitled to the benefit of such provision and as to which such supplemental indenture would apply;
                    (e)     to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Corporation, or successive successions, and the assumption by such successor of the covenants and obligations of the Corporation contained in the Securities of one or more series and in this Indenture or any supplemental indenture;
                    (f)     to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to one or more series of Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 10.6(c);
                    (g)     to secure any series of Securities;
                    (h)     to evidence any changes to this Indenture pursuant to Sections 10.5, 10.6 or 10.7 hereof as permitted by the terms thereof;
                    (i)     to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any indenture supplemental hereto which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or to conform the terms hereof, as amended and supplemented, that are applicable to the Securities of any series to the description of the terms of such Securities in the offering memorandum, prospectus supplement or other offering document applicable to such Securities at the time of initial sale thereof;
                    (j)     to add to or change or eliminate any provision of this Indenture as shall be necessary or desirable in accordance with any amendments to the TIA;
                    (k)     to add guarantors or co-obligors with respect to any series of Securities or to release guarantors from their guarantees of Securities in accordance with the terms of the applicable series of Securities;
                    (l)     to make any change in any series of Securities that does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders of such Securities;
                    (m)     to provide for uncertificated securities in addition to certificated securities;
                    (n)     to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities;
                    (o)     to prohibit the authentication and delivery of additional series of Securities; or
                    (p)     to establish the form and terms of Securities of any series as permitted in Section 3.1, or to authorize the issuance of additional Securities of a series previously authorized or to add to the conditions, limitations or restrictions on the authorized amount, terms or purposes of issue, authentication or delivery of the Securities of any series, as herein set forth, or other conditions, limitations or restrictions thereafter to be observed.
          Subject to the provisions of Section 12.8, the Trustee is authorized to join with the Corporation in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make the further agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property or assets thereunder.
          Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 12.1 may be executed by the Corporation and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 12.2.
          Section 12.2     . (a) With the consent of the Holders (evidenced as provided in Article 8) of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture voting separately, the Corporation and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of such series to be affected; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Security of each such series affected thereby,
With Consent of Holders
                    (b)     A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
                    (c)     It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders under this Section 12.2 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
                    (d)     The Corporation may set a record date for purposes of determining the identity of the Holders of each series of Securities entitled to give a written consent or waive compliance by the Corporation as authorized or permitted by this Section. Such record date shall not be more than 30 days prior to the first solicitation of such consent or waiver or the date of the most recent list of Holders furnished to the Trustee prior to such solicitation pursuant to Section 312 of the TIA.
                    (e)     Promptly after the execution by the Corporation and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section 12.2, the Corporation shall mail a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the Holders of Securities at their addresses as the same shall then appear in the Registrar of the Corporation. Any failure of the Corporation to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
          Section 12.3     . Every amendment to or supplement of this Indenture or the Securities shall conform to the requirements of the TIA as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act of 1939
          Section 12.4     . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article 12, this Indenture shall be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Corporation and the Holders of all of the Securities or of the Securities of any series affected, as the case may be, shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
Effect of Execution of Supplemental Indenture
          Section 12.5     . Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article may bear a notation in the form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Corporation or the Trustee shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors of the Corporation, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Corporation and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for the Securities then outstanding in equal aggregate principal amounts, and such exchange shall be made without cost to the Holders of the Securities.
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
          Section 12.6     . The Trustee shall sign any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article if the amendment, supplement or waiver does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may but need not sign it. In signing such amendment, supplement or waiver the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 10.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment, supplement or waiver is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc
          Section 12.7     . Upon the request of the Corporation, accompanied by the Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel required by Section 16.3 and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee of consent of the Holders if the supplemental indenture is to be executed pursuant to Section 12.2, the Trustee shall join with the Corporation in the execution of said supplemental indenture unless said supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into said supplemental indenture. The Trustee shall be fully protected in relying upon such Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel.
Trustee Protected
          Section 13.1     .
Applicability of Sinking Fund
                    (a)     Redemption of Securities permitted or required pursuant to a sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series by the terms of such series of Securities shall be made in accordance with such terms of such series of Securities and this Article, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for Securities of such series, provided, however, that if any such terms of a series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the terms of such series shall govern.
                    (b)     The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "Optional Sinking Fund Payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 13.2.
          Section 13.2     . The Corporation may, at its option, satisfy any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation, in whole or in part, with respect to a particular series of Securities by (a) delivering to the Trustee Securities of such series in transferable form theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation or redeemed at the election of the Corporation pursuant to Section 4.4 or (b) receiving credit for Securities of such series (not previously so credited) acquired by the Corporation and theretofore delivered to the Trustee. The Trustee shall credit such Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation with an amount equal to the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment shall be reduced accordingly. If the Corporation shall elect to so satisfy any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation, it shall deliver to the Trustee not less than 45 days prior to the relevant sinking fund payment date a written notice signed on behalf of the Corporation by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents, its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, which shall designate the Securities (and portions thereof, if any) so delivered or credited and which shall be accompanied by such Securities (to the extent not theretofore delivered) in transferable form. In case of the failure of the Corporation, at or before the time so required, to give such notice and deliver such Securities the Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation shall be paid entirely in moneys.
Mandatory Sinking Fund Obligation
          Section 13.3     . In addition to the sinking fund requirements of Section 13.2, to the extent, if any, provided for by the terms of a particular series of Securities, the Corporation may, at its option, make an Optional Sinking Fund Payment with respect to such Securities. Unless otherwise provided by such terms, (a) to the extent that the right of the Corporation to make such Optional Sinking Fund Payment shall not be exercised in any year, it shall not be cumulative or carried forward to any subsequent year, and (b) such optional payment shall operate to reduce the amount of any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation as to Securities of the same series. If the Corporation intends to exercise its right to make such optional payment in any year it shall deliver to the Trustee not less than 45 days prior to the relevant sinking fund payment date a certificate signed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents, its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers stating that the Corporation will exercise such optional right, and specifying the amount which the Corporation will pay on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. Such certificate shall also state that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Optional Redemption at Sinking Fund Redemption Price
          Section 13.4     .
Application of Sinking Fund Payment
                    (a)     If the sinking fund payment or payments made in funds pursuant to either Section 13.2 or 13.3 with respect to a particular series of Securities plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in funds with respect to such series shall exceed $100,000 (or a lesser sum if the Corporation shall so request, or such equivalent sum for Securities denominated other than in U.S. Dollars), it shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund payment date next following the date of such payment, unless the date of such payment shall be a sinking fund payment date, in which case such payment shall be applied on such sinking fund payment date, to the redemption of Securities of such series at the Redemption Price specified pursuant to Section 4.3(b). The Trustee shall select, in the manner provided in Section 3.1, for redemption on such sinking fund payment date, a sufficient principal amount of Securities of such series to absorb said funds, as nearly as may be, and shall, at the expense and in the name of the Corporation, thereupon cause notice of redemption of the Securities to be given in substantially the manner provided in Section 4.4(a) for the redemption of Securities in part at the option of the Corporation, except that the notice of redemption shall also state that the Securities are being redeemed for the sinking fund. Any sinking fund moneys not so applied by the Trustee to the redemption of Securities of such series shall be added to the next sinking fund payment received in funds by the Trustee and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section 13.4. Any and all sinking fund moneys held by the Trustee on the last sinking fund payment date with respect to Securities of such series, and not held for the payment or redemption of particular Securities of such series, shall be applied by the Trustee to the payment of the principal of the Securities of such series at Maturity.
                    (b)     On or prior to each sinking fund payment date, the Corporation shall pay to the Trustee a sum equal to all interest accrued to but not including the date fixed for redemption on Securities to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 13.4.
                    (c)     The Trustee shall not redeem any Securities of a series with sinking fund moneys or mail any notice of redemption of Securities of such series by operation of the sinking fund during the continuance of a Default in payment of interest on any Securities of such series or of any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default occurring as a consequence of this paragraph) of which the Trustee has actual knowledge, except that if the notice of redemption of any Securities of such series shall theretofore have been mailed in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Trustee shall redeem such Securities if funds sufficient for that purpose shall be deposited with the Trustee in accordance with the terms of this Article. Except as aforesaid, any moneys in the sinking fund at the time any such Default or Event of Default shall occur and any moneys thereafter paid into the sinking fund shall, during the continuance of such Default or Event of Default, be held as security for the payment of all the Securities of such series; provided, however, that in case such Default or Event of Default shall have been cured or waived as provided herein, such moneys shall thereafter be applied on the next sinking fund payment date on which such moneys are required to be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section 13.4.
          Section 14.1     .
Reports by Trustee
                    (a)     So long as any Securities are outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the TIA at the times and in the manner provided therein. If required by Section 313(a) of the TIA, the Trustee shall, within 60 days after each anniversary following the date of this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
                    (b)     The Trustee shall, at the time of the transmission to the Holders of Securities of any report pursuant to the provisions of this Section 14.1, file a copy of such report with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, if any, and also with the SEC in respect of a Security listed and registered on a national securities exchange, if any. The Corporation agrees to notify the Trustee when, as and if the Securities become listed on any stock exchange or any delisting thereof.
          The Corporation will reimburse the Trustee for all expenses incurred in the preparation and transmission of any report pursuant to the provisions of this Section 14.1 and of Section 14.2.
          Section 14.2     . The Corporation shall file with the Trustee and the SEC, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the TIA at the times and in the manner provided in the TIA; provided that, unless available on EDGAR, any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 30 days after the same is filed with the SEC; and provided further, that the filing of the reports specified in Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act by an entity that is the direct or indirect parent of the Corporation will satisfy the requirements of this Section 14.2 so long as such entity is an obligor or guarantor on the Securities; and provided further that the reports of such entity will not be required to include condensed consolidating financial information for the Corporation in a footnote to the financial statements of such entity.
Reports by the Corporation
          Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Corporation's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
          Section 14.3     . The Corporation covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
Securityholders' Lists
                    (a)     semi-annually, within 15 days after each Record Date, but in any event not less frequently than semi-annually, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities to which such Record Date applies, as of such Record Date, and
                    (b)     at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Corporation of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
provided, however, that so long as the Trustee shall be the Registrar, such lists shall not be required to be furnished.
          Section 15.1     . No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of, or the premium, if any, or interest on, any Security or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof or of the Debt represented thereby, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Corporation or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Corporation or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitutional provision, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Indenture and the Securities are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to, or be incurred by, any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Corporation or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Corporation or any successor corporation, because of the incurring of the Debt hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants, promises or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities, or to be implied herefrom or therefrom, and that all liability, if any, of that character against every such incorporator, stockholder, officer and director is, by the acceptance of the Securities and as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities expressly waived and released.
No Personal Liability
          Section 16.1     . If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by, or another provision included in this Indenture which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, of the TIA, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control.
TIA Controls
          Section 16.2     . Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person, sent by facsimile or electronic delivery, or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
          The Corporation or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          Section 16.3     .
Certificates and Opinions as to Conditions Precedent
                    (a)     Upon any request or application by the Corporation to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Corporation shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such document is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
                    (b)     Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (i) a statement that the Person giving such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (iii) a statement that, in the view or opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed view or opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (iv) a statement as to whether or not, in the view or opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
                    (c)     Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Corporation may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate, statement or opinion is based are erroneous. Any certificate, statement or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate, statement or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Corporation stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Corporation, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate, statement or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
                    (d)     Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Corporation or of counsel to the Corporation may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an accountant or firm of accountants, unless such officer or counsel, as the case may be, knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his or her certificate, statement or opinion may be based are erroneous. Any certificate or opinion of any firm of independent registered public accountants filed with the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent.
                    (e)     In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
                    (f)     Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
          Section 16.4     . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effects of Headings and Table of Contents
          Section 16.5     . Any notice required or permitted to be given to Securityholders shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided),
Notices to Securityholders; Waiver
                    (a)     if to Holders, if given in writing by first class mail, postage prepaid, to such Holders at their addresses as the same shall appear on the Registrar of the Corporation.
                    (b)     In the event of suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give notice by mail, then such notification as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice for every purpose hereunder.
                    (c)     Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance on such waiver. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail; neither the failure to mail such notice nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders, and any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given. In any case where notice to Holders is given by publication, any defect in any notice so published as to any particular Holder shall not affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders, and any notice that is published in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given.
          Section 16.6     . All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the parties hereto shall bind their respective successors and assigns and inure to the benefit of their permitted successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
          Section 16.7     . In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
          Section 16.8     . Nothing in this Indenture expressed and nothing that may be implied from any of the provisions hereof is intended, or shall be construed, to confer upon, or to give to, any Person or corporation other than the parties hereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities any benefit or any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Indenture or any covenant, condition, stipulation, promise or agreement hereof, and all covenants, conditions, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities.
Benefits of Indenture
          Section 16.9     . This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts Originals
          Section 16.10   . Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1, in any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity of any Security of any series shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment for the Securities of that series, then payment of principal and premium, if any, or interest need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be, to such Business Day if such payment is made or duly provided for on such Business Day.
Legal Holidays
          Section 16.11   . This Indenture and the Securities shall be deemed to be contracts made under the law of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of said State.
Governing Law
          EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF A SECURITY BY ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.

  
EXHIBIT 4.2
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
, dated as of July 28, 2009 (this "First Supplemental Indenture"), between St. Jude Medical, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Minnesota (herein called the "
Company
"), and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called "
Trustee
");
RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of July 28, 2009 (the "
Base Indenture
" and, together with this First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the "
Securities
"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 12.1 of the Base Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of any series of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture permits the form of Securities of any series to be established in an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 3.1 of the Base Indenture permits certain terms of any series of Securities to be established pursuant to an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of two new series of Securities under the Base Indenture, the form and substance of such Securities and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing and the purchase of the Securities of the two series established by this First Supplemental Indenture by the holders thereof (the "
Holders
"), it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all such Holders, as follows:
ARTICLE 1
 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
 
Section 1.01
   
Relation to Base Indenture
.
This First Supplemental Indenture constitutes a part of the Base Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes (as defined in Section 2.01)) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Base Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or modify, amend or otherwise affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series.
 
1
Section 1.02
   
Definitions
.
For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.02 have the respective meanings assigned hereto in this Section 1.02 and (ii) which are defined in the Base Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.02) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture. For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture:
(a)       Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an Article or Section refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this First Supplemental Indenture;
(b)       The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
(c)       Headings are for convenience or reference only and do not affect interpretations; and
(d)       The terms defined in this Section 1.02(d) have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular:
"
Interest Payment Date
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(d).
 
"
Interest Period
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(d).
 
"
Maturity Date
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(c).
 
"
Notes
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
 
"
2014 Notes
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
 
"
2019 Notes
" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
 
ARTICLE 2
 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES
 
Section 2.01
   
Terms of Notes
.
Pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 of the Base Indenture, there are hereby established two series of Securities, the terms of which shall be as follows:
(a)       
Designation
. There is hereby authorized and established two new series of Securities under the Base Indenture, known and designated as the "3.750% Notes due 2014" (the "
2014 Notes
") and "4.875% Notes due 2019" (the "
2019 Notes,
" and together with the 2014 Notes, the "
Notes
") of the Company. Each such series of Notes is unlimited in aggregate principal amount. The initial aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Notes to be issued under this First Supplemental Indenture shall be $700,000,000 and the initial aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes to be issued under this First Supplemental Indenture shall be $500,000,000. Any additional amounts of either such series to be issued shall be set forth in a Company Order.
 
2
(b)       
Form and Denominations
. The Notes will be issued only in fully registered form, and the authorized denominations of the Notes shall be $1,000 principal amount and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Notes will initially be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, with such modifications thereto as may be approved by the authorized officer executing the same. The Notes will be denominated in U.S. dollars and payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest will be made in U.S. dollars.
(c)       
Maturity Date
. The Stated Maturity of principal for the 2014 Notes shall be payable in full on July 15, 2014 and the Stated Maturity of principal for the 2019 Notes shall be payable in full on July 15, 2019 (each, the "
Maturity Date
'').
(d)       
Interest
. Interest payable on any Interest Payment Date (as defined below), the Maturity Date, or if applicable, the Redemption Date (as determined in accordance with Section 4.2 of the Base Indenture) shall be the amount accrued from, and including, the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for (or from and including the original issue date of July 28, 2009, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for with respect to the Notes) to but excluding such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or, if applicable, Redemption Date, as the case may be (each, an "
Interest Period
"). The Notes will bear interest at the rate of 3.750% for the 2014 Notes and 4.875% for the 2019 Notes per year from the original issue date thereof to the respective Maturity Date. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2010 (each such date, an "
Interest Payment Date
"). The amount of interest payable for any semi-annual Interest Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event any Interest Payment Date on or before the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no interest shall accrue as a result of such postponement.
          In the event the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date for any Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the related payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest may be made on the next succeeding date that is a Business Day (and no additional interest will accumulate on the amount payable for the period from and after the Maturity Date for such Note). Interest due on the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date (in each case, whether or not an Interest Payment Date) will be paid to the Person to whom principal of such Notes is payable.
(e)       
Sinking Fund; Holder Repurchase Right
. The Notes shall not be subject to any sinking fund or analogous provision or be redeemable at the option of the Holders.
(f)        
Forms
. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, with such modifications thereto as may be approved by the authorized officer executing the same.
(g)       
Appointment of Agent
. The Trustee will initially be the Registrar and Paying Agent with respect to the Notes.
 
3
(h)       
Defeasance
. Until the applicable Maturity Date, the Notes will be subject to Sections 11.2 and 11.3 of the Base Indenture.
(i)        
Further Issues
. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of either series of Notes, issue additional notes with respect to either such series. Any such additional notes will have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date and other terms as the respective series of Notes. Any such additional notes, together with the related series of Notes herein provided for, will constitute a single series of Securities under the Indenture.
ARTICLE 3
 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
          
Section 3.01.
Events of Default
. Pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Base Indenture, the term "Event of Default" shall include, in addition to those otherwise set forth in Section 7.1 of the Base Indenture, the following for each series of Notes:
(a)     the occurrence with respect to any Debt of the Company in an aggregate principal amount of $75,000,000 or more of (i) an event of default that results in such Debt becoming due and payable prior to its scheduled maturity (after giving effect to any applicable grace period) or (ii) the failure to make any payment when due (including any applicable grace period) which results in the acceleration of the maturity of such Debt, in each case without such acceleration having been rescinded, annulled or otherwise cured.
ARTICLE 4
 
REDEMPTION OF THE NOTES
Section 4.01
   
Optional Redemption by Company
. The Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company on the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Note as set forth as Exhibit A.
ARTICLE 5
 
CHANGE OF CONTROL
Section 5.01
   
Offer to Purchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event
. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the form of Note set forth as Exhibit A), and unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 4.01, the Company shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of the applicable series of Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Note set forth as Exhibit A.
 
 
4
 
ARTICLE 6
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
Section 6.01
   
Relationship to Existing Base Indenture
.
The First Supplemental Indenture is a supplemental indenture within the meaning of the Base Indenture. The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified, confirmed and approved and, with respect to the Notes, the Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 6.02
   
Modification of The Existing Base Indenture
.
Except as expressly modified by this First Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Base Indenture shall govern the terms and conditions of the Notes.
Section 6.03
   
Governing Law
.
This First Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 6.04
   
Counterparts
.
This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 6.05
   
Trustee Makes No Representation
.
The recitals contained herein are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture (except for its execution thereof and its certificates of authentication of the Notes).
Section 6.06
   
Separability
. In case any provision in the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture or the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
 
 
5
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested all as of the day and year first above written.
Dated: July 28, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
6
EXHIBIT A
[Form of Senior Notes]
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE COMPANY, THE TRUSTEE OR ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY FOR ALL PURPOSES. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("
DTC
"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
Interest
. St. Jude Medical, Inc., a corporation duly incorporated and subsisting under the laws of the State of Minnesota (herein called the "
Company
", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ______________ Dollars ($                ), as revised by the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on _________ and to pay interest thereon from _________ or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on _______ and _______ in each year, commencing ___________, at the rate of ___% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
Method of Payment
. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the __________ or _________ (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable
 
A-1
to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10-days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Authentication
. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
A-2
IN
WITNESS
WHEREOF
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
A-3
[FORM OF CERTIFICATION OF AUTHENTICATION]
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
A-4
[Form of Reverse of Note]
Indenture.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "
Securities
"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July ___, 2009 (herein called the "
Base Indenture
", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July ___, 2009 (herein called the "
First Supplemental Indenture
", and together with the Base Indenture, the "
Indenture
"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "
Trustee
", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $____________. The Company may at any time issue additional securities under the Indenture in unlimited amounts having the same terms as the Securities.
Optional Redemption
. The Securities of this series are subject to redemption at the Company's option, at any time and from time to time, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice mailed to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at his address as it appears in the Registrar, on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date or (ii) as determined by an Independent Investment Banker (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus ___ basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date; provided that unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on or after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption.
For purposes of determining the optional redemption price, the following definitions are applicable:
"
Treasury Rate
" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue will be computed as of the third business day immediately preceding the Redemption Date.
"
Comparable Treasury Issue
" means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
A-5
"
Comparable Treasury Price
" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four Referenced Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received.
"
Independent Investment Banker
" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
"
Reference Treasury Dealer
" means (i) Banc of America Securities LLC. and its successors and three other nationally recognized investment banking firms;
provided
,
however
, that, if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "
Primary Treasury Dealer
"), the Company shall substitute therefor another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
"
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue for the Securities (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Change of Control
. If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as described above, it will be required to make an offer to repurchase all, or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof), of each Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the "
Change of Control Offer
") on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "
Change of Control Payment
").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company will be required to mail a notice to Holders of Securities describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "
Change of Control Payment Date
"), pursuant to the procedures required herein and described in such notice. The Company must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the
 
A-6
Change of Control provisions herein, the Company will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will be required, to the extent lawful, to:
(a) accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered, and not validly withdrawn, pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(b) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered and not validly withdrawn; and
(c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities or portions of Securities being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will be required to mail promptly to each Holder who properly tendered Securities the purchase price for such Securities and the Trustee will be required to authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) promptly to each such Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Securities surrendered, if any;
provided
that each new Security will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a repurchase at the option of Holders, the following definitions are applicable:
"
Capital Stock
" means the capital stock of every class whether now or hereafter authorized, regardless of whether such capital stock shall be limited to a fixed sum or percentage with respect to the rights of the holders thereof to participate in dividends and in the distribution of assets upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such corporation.
"
Change of Control
" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than us or one of our Subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's then outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the
 
A-7
Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(c) the first day on which a majority of the Company's members of its board of directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(d) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b)(x) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (y) immediately following that transaction, no person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"
Change of Control Triggering Event
" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
"
Continuing Directors
" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's board of directors who (a) was a member of such board of directors on July     , 2009 or (b) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of a proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
"
Fitch
" means Fitch, Inc. and its successors.
"
Investment Grade
" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's), a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) and a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch).
"
Moody's
" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"
Rating Agencies
" means (a) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (b) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act that is selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's board of directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or each of them, as the case may be.
"
Rating Event
" means, with respect to the Securities, the rating on the Securities is lowered below Investment Grade by any two of the three Rating Agencies on any date during the period commencing 60 days prior to the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of
 
A-8
the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies), provided that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in, or termination of, any rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect to a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event hereunder) if the Rating Agency or Rating Agencies ceasing to rate the Securities or making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the termination or reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
 
"
S&P
" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"
Voting Stock
" means, with respect to any specified person as of any date, the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, which provisions apply to this Security. This Security is not subject to repayment at the Holder's option.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or the Indenture shall affect or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Security at the respective due dates, place and rate, and in the Currency herein prescribed.
Default and Remedies
. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Amendment, Modification and Waiver
. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
A-9
Denominations, Transfer and Exchange
. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Registrar, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Persons Deemed Owners
. Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Miscellaneous
. The Indenture and the Securities, including this Security, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused "CUSIP" numbers to be printed on the Securities as a convenience to the Holders of the Securities. No representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of such CUSIP numbers as printed on the Securities, and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
A-10
 
ASSIGNMENT FORM
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby
sells, assigns and transfers unto
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL
SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING
NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears on the first page of the within Security in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
NOTICE: Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an "
eligible guarantor institution
" that is a member or participant in a "
signature guarantee program
" (e.g., the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchange Medallion Program and the New York Stock Exchange Medallion Program).
 
A-11
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL SECURITY
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
 
A-12


