FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20101020080404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2010, St. Jude Medical, Inc. issued a press release concerning its financial results for the third quarter of 2010.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Item 9.01    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
CONTACTS
 
 
St. Jude Medical Reports Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
        
Total revenue grew 8% year-over-year constant currency
        
Adjusted Non-GAAP EPS of $0.72 grew 22%
        
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sales were up 14% year-over-year constant currency
        
Company is raising its guidance for earnings per share for the full year
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  October 20, 2010  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ) today reported sales and net earnings for the third quarter ended October 2, 2010.
 
Third Quarter Sales
 
The Company reported net sales of $1.240 billion in the third quarter of 2010, an increase of 7 percent compared with the $1.160 billion in the third quarter of 2009. Revenue for the third quarter increased 8 percent after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency. Foreign currency translation comparisons decreased third quarter sales by approximately $10 million.
 
Commenting on the Company's results, St. Jude Medical Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Daniel J. Starks said, "Our third quarter results reinforce our conviction that our growth program is on track and that St. Jude Medical is well positioned to continue growing long term at a superior rate. We now have raised our 2010 EPS guidance range for the third time in three quarters. We have good momentum as we prepare to finish up the year and look to 2011."
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM)
 
Total CRM sales, which include ICD and pacemaker products, were $738 million for the third quarter of 2010, a 7 percent increase compared with the third quarter of 2009. On a currency neutral basis, total CRM sales grew 8 percent over the comparable quarter in 2009.
 
Of that total, ICD product sales were $439 million in the third quarter, a 13 percent increase compared with the third quarter of 2009. ICD revenue grew 14 percent after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency.
 
Third quarter pacemaker sales were $299 million, consistent with the third quarter of 2009 on a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
 
Atrial Fibrillation (AF)
 
AF product sales for the third quarter of 2010 totaled $169 million, an 8 percent increase over the third quarter of 2009. On a currency neutral basis, total AF sales grew 9 percent over the comparable quarter in 2009.
 
Neuromodulation
 
Neuromodulation product sales were $93 million in the third quarter of 2010, up 11 percent from the comparable quarter of 2009 on a reported and constant currency basis.
 
Cardiovascular
 
Total cardiovascular sales, which primarily include vascular closure and heart valve products, were $240 million for the third quarter of 2010, a 4 percent increase over the third quarter of 2009 on a reported and constant currency basis.
 
Sales of vascular closure products in the third quarter of 2010 were $86 million.
 
Heart valve product sales for the third quarter of 2010 were $78 million.
 
Third Quarter Earnings Results
 
In the third quarter, the Company recorded after-tax charges of $11 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related primarily to closing and other costs associated with the acquisition of LightLab Imaging, Inc. and recorded $12 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, of in-process research and development expenses related to the acquisition of certain pre-development technology assets.
 
Including these items, reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2010 were $208 million, or $0.63 per share. This compares to reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2009 of $167 million or $0.48 per share.
 
In accordance with GAAP, reported net earnings for the third quarter 2010 do not include any benefit from the research and development tax credit, which has yet to be extended for 2010. Including the benefit of this adjustment and excluding the third quarter charges, adjusted net earnings for the third quarter of 2010 were $238 million, or $0.72 per diluted share.  A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP adjusted net earnings per share to the Company's GAAP net earnings per share is provided in the schedule at the end of the press release.
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Sales and Earnings Guidance
 
During a conference call today, St. Jude Medical will provide its range for revenue expectations for the fourth quarter by product category and update its expectations related to full-year earnings per share.
 
The Company expects its consolidated adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010 to be in the range of $0.72 to $0.74 per diluted share and for full-year 2010 consolidated adjusted net earnings to be in the range of $2.98 to $3.00 per diluted share, a $0.09 increase on the top end of the guidance from the full-year 2010 guidance we gave during our second quarter earnings call. A reconciliation of the Company's quarterly and annual guidance is provided in the schedule below.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The Company provides adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share because St. Jude Medical management believes that in order to properly understand the Company's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of certain adjustments (such as in-process research and development charges, acquisition-related charges, impairment charges, restructuring charges, litigation charges or litigation reserve adjustments and income tax adjustments). These adjustments result from facts and circumstances (such as business development activities, acquisitions, restructuring activities, asset impairment events or developments, settlements and other developments relating to litigation and resolution of audits by tax authorities) that vary in frequency and impact on the Company's results of operations. St. Jude Medical management uses adjusted net earning s and adjusted net earnings per share to forecast and evaluate the operational performance of the Company as well as to compare results of current periods to prior periods on a consolidated basis.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Investors should consider non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
St. Jude Medical's third quarter 2010 earnings call can be heard live today beginning at 7 a.m. CDT (also archived for 90 days) on the Investor Relations section of our website sjm.com.
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical develops medical technology and services that focus on putting more control into the hands of those who treat cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide. The company is dedicated to advancing the practice of medicine by reducing risk wherever possible and contributing to successful outcomes for every patient. St. Jude Medical is headquartered in St. Paul, Minn. and has four major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiovascular and neuromodulation. For more information, please visit
sjm.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, anticipated regulatory approvals and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions, risks related to the Company's proposed acquisition of AGA Medical Holdings and other factors beyond the Company's control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the C ompany's filings with the SEC, including those described in the Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements sections of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010. The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


