FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20120830133231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report:  August 27, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
st. jude medical, inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number:  1-12441
 
 
One St. Jude Medical Drive St. Paul, Minnesota 55117
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(651) 756-2000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05  Costs Associated With Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On August 30, 2012, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing that it was realigning its product divisions into two new operating units:  the Cardiovascular and Ablation Technologies Division and the Implantable Electronic Systems Division.  In connection with this decision, the Company has also announced it will centralize several of the Companys support functions, including information technology, human resources, legal, business development and certain marketing functions. These organizational changes are part of a comprehensive plan to accelerate the Companys growth and are designed to reduce costs, leverage economies of scale, maintain the highest level of quality and fund the Companys entire portfolio of new growth drivers.
 
In connection with this realignment, the Company expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $50 million to $80 million. This estimate is comprised of $30 million to $40 million of employee termination costs, including severance and other benefits, and $20 million to $40 million in accelerated depreciation, asset impairments and other costs. The Company estimates that approximately $35 million to $45 million of the charges will result in future cash expenditures. The majority of the restructuring activities and related charges will be initiated in the third quarter of 2012 and are expected to be substantially complete within the next twelve months.
 
Item 3.01  Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
 
As disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on August 23, 2012, due to the death of a member of the Companys Board of Directors and Audit Committee, the Company was not in compliance with Section 303A.07(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual which requires that audit committees be comprised of at least three independent directors. On August 27, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors approved the selection of Barbara B. Hill, an existing eligible director, as a new member of the Companys Audit Committee. The Company is, therefore, now in compliance with the requirement of Section 303A.07(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
In connection with the realignment of the Companys product divisions and the centralization of several support functions described in Item 2.05 above, John C. Heinmiller, who had been serving as the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be taking on an expanded role as Executive Vice President, overseeing the centralization of the information technology, human resources, legal and business development functions. As a result, effective August 30, 2012, Mr. Heinmiller will cease serving as the Companys Chief Financial Officer.
 
On August 27, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors appointed Donald Zurbay as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective as of August 30, 2012. In this new role, Mr. Zurbay will continue to report to John Heinmiller. Donald Zurbay, age 45, had been serving as the Companys Vice President and Corporate Controller since January 2006. In 2004, Mr. Zurbay was named Corporate Controller. Mr. Zurbay joined the Company in 2003 as Director of Corporate Finance. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Zurbay held positions at Deloitte & Touche LLP, The Valspar Corporation and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
In connection with his appointment as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, on August 27, 2012, the Companys Compensation Committee approved a new compensation arrangement with Mr. Zurbay effective August 30, 2012. As a result of this new arrangement, Mr. Zurbay will receive the following compensation in 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Zurbay will also be entitled to receive long-term incentive awards in December 2012 along with the Companys other executive officers. The restricted stock units awarded to Mr. Zurbay were awarded pursuant to the shareholder-approved St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (2011), a copy of which is on file with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2011. A copy of the form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement and related Restricted Stock Units Award Certificate used in connection with the award to Mr. Zurbay is on file with the SEC as Exhibit 10.7 to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011.
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 30, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the realignment of the Companys business units and related changes to the Companys executive management team. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
99.1        Press release issued by St. Jude Medical, Inc. on August 30, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 30, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
St. Jude Medical Realigns Business Units to Support Future Growth Opportunities and Announces Changes to Executive Leadership
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  Aug. 30, 2012  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE:STJ), a global medical device company, today announced the realignment of its product divisions into two new operating units: the Implantable Electronic Systems Division (IESD) and the Cardiovascular and Ablation Technologies Division (CATD). The company will also centralize several support functions including information technology, human resources, legal, business development, and many marketing functions. The companys United States and International Divisions, which are focused on product commercialization, will continue serving customers based on existing call points and specialties.
 
Under the leadership of Eric Fain, the IESD will be comprised of the former Cardiac Rhythm Management Division and the former Neuromodulation Division. Under the leadership of Frank Callaghan, the CATD will be comprised of the former Atrial Fibrillation Division and the former Cardiovascular Division. Fain and Callaghan will report to Group President Michael Rousseau.
 
As part of the reorganization, three additional executive officers have been named: Donald Zurbay, Rachel Ellingson and Kathleen Chester. Donald Zurbay is now vice president, finance and chief financial officer, reporting to John Heinmiller, who is taking on an expanded role as executive vice president, overseeing the centralization of the IT, HR, legal and business development functions. Rachel Ellingson has been named vice president, corporate relations, as Angela Craig assumes additional responsibilities as vice president, global human resources. Kathleen Chester has been named to a newly created role of vice president, global regulatory.
 
The reorganization we have announced today is part of a comprehensive plan to accelerate our growth, said Daniel J. Starks, chairman, president and chief executive officer of St. Jude Medical. We are focused on reducing costs, leveraging economies of scale, maintaining the highest level of quality, and funding our entire portfolio of new growth drivers.
 
The company estimates that as a result of the organizational changes announced today, it will be able to reduce pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $50-$60 million annually beginning in 2013. The company is providing support to the approximately 300 employees whose jobs have been eliminated as a result of todays announcement.
 
 
 
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical develops medical technology and services that focus on putting more control into the hands of those who treat cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide. The company is dedicated to advancing the practice of medicine by reducing risk wherever possible and contributing to successful outcomes for every patient. St. Jude Medical is headquartered in St. Paul, Minn. and has four major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiovascular and neuromodulation. For more information, please visit
sjm.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, anticipated regulatory approvals and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon managements current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Companys control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Companys filings with the SEC, including those described in the Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements sections of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012. The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
 
 
 


