FILE:STJ/STJ-8K-20120718091046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
July 18, 2012
 
ST. JUDE MEDICAL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
One St. Jude Medical Drive, St. Paul, MN 55117
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(651) 756-2000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 18, 2012, St. Jude Medical, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release concerning its financial results for the second quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
 
St. Jude Medical Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  July 18, 2012  St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ) today reported sales and net earnings for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012.
 
Second Quarter Sales
 
The Company reported net sales of $1.410 billion in the second quarter of 2012, a decrease of 2 percent compared with the $1.446 billion in the second quarter of 2011. Revenue for the second quarter increased 1 percent after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency. Foreign currency translation comparisons decreased second quarter sales by approximately $47 million.
 
Commenting on the second quarter and the Companys ongoing program, St. Jude Medical Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Daniel J. Starks said, All of St. Jude Medicals second quarter results fell within our previously announced guidance ranges. We continued to make good progress during the quarter implementing new product programs designed to accelerate our growth in 2013. We are focused on delivering innovative medical devices which both improve patient outcomes and reduce the cost of health care.
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM)
 
Total CRM sales, which include implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) and pacemaker products, were $746 million for the second quarter of 2012, a 6 percent decrease compared with the second quarter of 2011. Total CRM sales for the second quarter decreased 3 percent after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency.
 
Of that total, ICD product sales were $459 million in the second quarter, a 4 percent decrease compared with the second quarter of 2011. On a constant currency basis, total ICD sales declined 1 percent from the prior year.
 
Second quarter pacemaker sales were $287 million, a 9 percent decrease compared to the second quarter of 2011. After adjusting for the impact of foreign currency, pacemaker sales decreased 5 percent.
 
Atrial Fibrillation (AF)
 
AF product sales for the second quarter totaled $218 million, a 5 percent increase over the second quarter of 2011. On a constant currency basis, total AF sales increased 8 percent from the prior year.
 
 
 
Neuromodulation
 
St. Jude Medical sales of neuromodulation products were $106 million in the second quarter of 2012, up 2 percent from the comparable quarter of 2011. Revenue for the second quarter increased 5 percent after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency.
 
Cardiovascular
 
Total cardiovascular sales, which primarily include vascular and structural heart products, were $340 million for the second quarter of 2012, a 1 percent decrease from the second quarter of 2011. On a constant currency basis, total cardiovascular sales increased 3 percent over the prior year.
 
Sales of vascular products during the second quarter of 2012 were $180 million, down 5 percent from the comparable quarter of 2011.
 
Structural heart product sales for the second quarter of 2012 were $160 million, a 5 percent increase over the second quarter of 2011.
 
Second Quarter Earnings Results
 
In the second quarter of 2012 the Company recorded after-tax charges of $27 million, or $0.08 per share primarily related to restructuring actions initiated during the second quarter of 2011 to realign certain activities within its CRM business. This consists primarily of closing down operations at its location in Sweden as well as costs associated with continuing efforts to leverage sales and sales support organizations.
 
Including these items, reported net earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $244 million, or $0.78 per share. This compares to reported net earnings for the second quarter of 2011 of $241 million, or $0.72 per share.
 
In accordance with GAAP, reported net earnings for the second quarter 2012 do not include any benefit from the research and development tax credit, which has yet to be extended for 2012. Including the benefit of this adjustment and excluding the second quarter charge, adjusted net earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $276 million, or $0.88 per share. A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP adjusted net earnings per share to the Companys GAAP net earnings per share is provided in the schedule at the end of the press release.
 
Third Quarter and Full Year 2012 Sales and Earnings Guidance
 
During a conference call today, St. Jude Medical will provide its range for revenue expectations for the third quarter and full year by product category.
 
The Company expects its consolidated adjusted net earnings for the third quarter of 2012 to be in the range of $0.80 to $0.82 per diluted share and for the full-year 2012 consolidated adjusted net earnings to now be in the range of $3.40 to $3.45. A further reconciliation of the Companys quarterly and annual guidance is provided in the schedule below.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The Company provides adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share because St. Jude Medical management believes that in order to properly understand the Companys short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of certain adjustments (such as in-process research and development charges, impairment charges, restructuring charges, litigation charges or litigation reserve adjustments and income tax adjustments). These adjustments result from facts and circumstances (such as business development activities, restructuring activities, asset impairment events or developments, settlements and other developments relating to litigation and resolution of audits by tax authorities) that vary in frequency and impact on the Companys results of operations. St. Jude Medical management uses adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share to forecast and evaluate the operational performance of the Company as well as to compare results of current periods to prior periods on a consolidated basis.
 
The Company provides constant currency sales growth because St. Jude Medical management believes that in order to properly understand the Companys short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on net sales. St. Jude Medical management uses constant currency sales growth to forecast and evaluate the operational performance of the Company as well as to compare sales of current periods to prior periods.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Investors should consider non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
St. Jude Medicals second quarter 2012 earnings call can be heard live today beginning at 7 a.m. CDT (also archived for 90 days) on the Investor Relations section of our website sjm.com.
 
About St. Jude Medical
 
St. Jude Medical develops medical technology and services that focus on putting more control into the hands of those who treat cardiac, neurological and chronic pain patients worldwide. The company is dedicated to advancing the practice of medicine by reducing risk wherever possible and contributing to successful outcomes for every patient. St. Jude Medical is headquartered in St. Paul, Minn. and has four major focus areas that include: cardiac rhythm management, atrial fibrillation, cardiovascular and neuromodulation. For more information, please visit sjm.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include the expectations, plans and prospects for the Company, including potential clinical successes, anticipated regulatory approvals and future product launches, and projected revenues, margins, earnings and market shares. The statements made by the Company are based upon managements current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include market conditions and other factors beyond the Companys control and the risk factors and other cautionary statements described in the Companys filings with the SEC, including those described in the Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements sections of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012. The Company does not intend to update these statements and undertakes no duty to any person to provide any such update under any circumstance.
 
 
 
Summary of Second Quarter 2012 Sales and Reconciliation to Constant Currency Sales Growth 
(in millions) 
(unaudited)
 
 
St. Jude Medical, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
St. Jude Medical, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 Earnings Guidance Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


