FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20040802142615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report: July 30, 2004 (Date of earliest event reported) Commission Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer File Number Address; and Telephone Number Identification No. 1-3525 AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. 13-4922640 (A New York Corporation) 1 Riverside Plaza Columbus, Ohio 43215 Telephone (614) 716-1000 Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. The Exhibit Index on page 3 is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. The information, including the exhibit attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise stated in such filing. Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99 is a copy of the press release of American Electric Power Company, Inc. naming a new member of its board of directors. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. By: /s/ Thomas G. Berkemeyer Name: Thomas G. Berkemeyer Title: Assistant Secretary July 30, 2004 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 99 Press Release issued by American Electric Power Company, Inc., dated July 30, 2004. AEP names Lionel L. Nowell III to board of directors Friday, July 30, 2004 AEP News Release Lionel L. Nowell III, senior vice president and treasurer of PepsiCo Inc., has been eleted to AEP's board of directors, according to Michael G. Morris, AEP's chairman, president and chief executive officer. With the election of Nowell, AEP's board consists of 12 members, 11 of whom are outside directors. Morris is the only inside director. "Lionel Nowell has an extensive financial background with experience in corporate strategy and business development, credentials that are valuable to a corporate board," Morris said. "We're very pleased that he has agreed to join our board of directors." Nowell became senior vice president and treasurer of PepsiCo in August 2001 and is responsible for the PepsiCo's worldwide corporate treasury function, including worldwide financial activities, capital markets strategies, foreign exchange, cash forecasting and planning. Previously, he was chief financial officer of the Pepsi Bottling Group and, prior to that, he was PepsiCo's controller. Nowell joined PepsiCo from RJR Nabisco, Inc., where he was senior vice president, Strategy and Business Development. Prior to that, Nowell was with Diageo PLC, where he became chief financial officer of Diageo's Pillsbury North America, Pillsbury Foodservice and Haagen Dazs units. Nowell holds an undergraduate degree in business administration from The Ohio State University and is a certified public accountant. Nowell is on the board of directors for PepsiAmericas and Church & Dwight Co., Inc. He is a member of the Dean's Advisory Board at The Ohio State University Fisher College of Business. He is also an active member of the Executive Leadership Council, Financial Executive Institute, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Ohio Society of CPAs.


