FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20051026165652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On October 26, 2005, the Board of Directors (the Board) of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Linda A. Goodspeed to serve as a director of the Company. Ms. Goodspeeds initial term as a director will continue until the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. The Board appointed Ms. Goodspeed to the Audit Committee, the Nuclear Oversight Committee and the Policy Committee.
Ms. Goodspeed, 43, is Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer for Lennox International Inc. Ms. Goodspeed is also on the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation.
The Board has determined that Ms. Goodspeed is an independent director under the Companys Corporate Governance guidelines and the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
As a non-employee director, Ms. Goodspeed will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee directors, as disclosed in the Companys most recent Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on March 14, 2005.
There are no arrangements between Ms. Goodspeed and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Goodspeed was elected to serve as a director, nor are there any transactions to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and in which Ms. Goodspeed has a material interest.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
October 26, 2005


