FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20060601160224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
On May 30, 2006, the Company executed a Stock Ownership Requirement Plan in the form of Exhibit 1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Stock Ownership Requirement Plan specifies the terms and conditions that apply to eligible employees who are assigned one or more minimum stock ownership requirements (approximately 50 AEP employees). Participants are expected to reach each minimum stock ownership requirement assigned to them within five years of the date it becomes effective through the mandatory deferral into AEP Career Shares of earned performance units granted under the AEP Long-Term Incentive Plan and, to the extent necessary, by committing to retain AEP shares or share equivalents that they may otherwise hold. In addition, participants who do not satisfy a minimum stock ownership requirement within five years of when it was issued will have fifty percent of their annual bonus for any subsequent year subject to a mandatory deferral into AEP Career Shares. Participants who have not met a minimum stock ownership requirement for which the five-year window period has closed also will be required to retain all AEP shares realized through stock option exercises, except to the extent they are sold to cover the exercise costs and taxes applicable to these exercises. Executives will then be expected to commit to retain the net shares realized for the purpose of satisfying their minimum stock ownership requirement.
Mandatorily deferred amounts (denominated in unfunded share equivalents called "AEP Career Shares") earn a rate of return equivalent to the total return on AEP common stock with dividends reinvested. AEP career shares become payable in cash or shares following the employees termination of employment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
June 1, 2006
 
EXHIBIT 1
 
1.1  The Human Resources Committee (HRC) of the Board of Directors of American Electric Power Company, Inc. believes that it is critical to AEPs long-term success to effectively align the long-term financial interests of senior executives with those of AEPs shareholders and that an effective alignment is best accomplished by substantial, long-term stock ownership. The American Electric Power System Stock Ownership Requirement Plan (the Plan) was established by American Electric Power Service Corporation (the Company) and such subsidiaries of the Parent Corporation that have Eligible Employees to facilitate the achievement and maintenance of Minimum Stock Ownership Requirements assigned to Eligible Employees.
   
1.2  The effective date of the Plan, as amended and restated by this document, is January 1, 2005.
   
2.1  Account means the separate memo account established and maintained by the Committee (or the recordkeeper employed by the Company) to record the number of Shares and Share Equivalents that have been designated in accordance with the terms of this Plan to satisfy all Minimum Stock Ownership Requirements assigned to a Participant.
   
2.2  AEP means the Parent Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
   
2.3  Annual Incentive Compensation means incentive compensation payable pursuant to the terms of an annual incentive compensation plan approved by the Committee for inclusion in the Plan, provided that such annual incentive compensation shall be determined without regard to any salary or wage reductions made pursuant to sections 125 or 402(e)(3) of the Code or participant contributions pursuant to a pay reduction agreement under the American Electric Power System Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, as amended or the American Electric Power System Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan. Annual Incentive Compensation will not include an employees base pay, non-annual bonuses (such as but not limited to project bonuses and sign-on bonuses), severance pay, or relocation payments.
   
2.4  Applicable Tax Payments means the following types of taxes that AEP may withhold and pay that are applicable to the amount then credited to the Career Share Account:
   
(a)
 
Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2) (the FICA Amount);
(b)
 
Income tax at source on wages imposed under Code Section 3401 or the corresponding withholding provisions of applicable state, local and foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of the FICA Amount; and
(c)
 
The additional income tax at source on wages attributable to pyramiding Code Section 3401 wages and taxes;
provided, however, that the total Applicable Tax Payments may not exceed such limits as may be applicable to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
2.5  Career Share Account means a separate memo account that is a subset of the Account that is maintained to identify the Career Share Units used to satisfy a Participants Minimum Stock Ownership Requirements. The portion of the Career Share Account attributable to Career Shares earned and Vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be referred to as the Participants Legacy Career Share Account Balance. The portion of the Career Share Account attributable to Career Shares other than that described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be referred to as the Participants Active Career Share Account Balance.
   
2.6  Career Share Units or Career Shares means the Share Equivalents tracked in a Participants Career Share Account in order to determine whether and when the Participant has satisfied his or her Minimum Stock Ownership Requirements. Phantom stock units that become earned and vested under the Long-Term Incentive Plan represent an example of an award that may become Career Shares under the terms of this Plan. Career Shares also have been referred to as Phantom Stock Units in Company communications.
   
2.7  Claims Reviewer means the person or committee designated by the Company (or by a duly authorized person) as responsible for the review of claims for benefits under the Plan in accordance with Section 8.1. Until changed, the Claims Reviewer shall be the Companys employee who is the head of the Executive Benefits area of the Human Resources department.
   
2.8  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended from time to time.
   
2.9  Committee means the committee designated by the Company (or by a duly authorized person) as responsible for the administration of the Plan. Until changed, the Committee shall consist of the employees of the Company holding the following positions: chief executive officer of the Company; head of the Human Resources department (currently, Vice President Human Resources); the employee to whom the head of the Human Resources department reports (currently, Senior Vice President - Shared Services) and the chief financial officer of the Company. The Committee may authorize any person or persons to act on its behalf with full authority in regard to any of its duties and hereunder other than those set forth in Section 9.2.
   
2.10  Common Stock means the common stock, $6.50 par value, of the Parent Corporation.
   
2.11  Company means American Electric Power Service Corporation.
   
2.12  Eligible Employee means any employee of AEP who is hired into or promoted to a position that is eligible to be assigned a Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement, and only so long as a Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement applies. At the date of execution of this document, a Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement is assigned to those employees employed at exempt salary grade 36 or higher. An individual who is not directly compensated by AEP or who is not treated by AEP as an active employee shall not be considered an Eligible Employee.
   
2.13  First Date Available or FDA means the last day of the month coincident with or next following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participants Termination.
   
2.14  Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan means the American Electric Power System Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan, as amended from time to time.
   
2.15  Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP means the American Electric Power System Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, including any successor plan or plans. The LTIP that is in effect as of the date this Plan is executed is entitled the Amended and Restated American Electric Power System Long-Term Incentive Plan - April 26, 2005.
   
2.16  Market Value means the closing price of a Share, as published in
   
The Wall Street Journal
report of the New York Stock Exchange - Composite Transactions on the date in question or, if the Share shall not have been traded on such date or if the New York Stock Exchange is closed on such date, then the first day prior thereto on which the Common Stock was so traded.
2.17  Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement or MSOR means the targeted aggregate number of Share and Share Equivalents specified under the terms of this Plan as applicable to the Participant. Participants may be assigned multiple minimum stock ownership requirements. Any MSOR assigned to a Participant shall no longer be applicable to such Participant after the date of the Participants Termination.
   
2.18  MSOR Window Period means the period that begins as of the date a particular MSOR is assigned to an Eligible Employee (or Participant, with regard to any increase in his or her MSOR) and ends on the five (5) year anniversary of that date.
   
2.19  Next Date Available or NDA means the June 30 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which falls the Participants Termination.
   
2.20  Parent Corporation means American Electric Power Company, Inc., a New York corporation, and any successor thereto.
   
2.21  Participant is defined in Article IV.
   
2.22  Performance-Based Compensation has the meaning set forth in Section 409A(a)(4)(B)(iii) of the Code.
   
2.23  Performance Shares means performance shares or performance share units (or other similar types of equity incentive compensation) awarded under the American Electric Power System Performance Share Incentive Plan or the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Reference in this Plan to the 12/10/2003 Performance Share Awards shall be deemed to refer to those Performance Shares that were issued with a grant date of December 10, 2003 and subject to a performance period from December 10, 2003 through December 31, 2004.
   
2.24  Phantom Stock Units are also referred to as Career Shares. See definition of Career Share Units, above.
   
2.25  Plan Year means the twelve-month period commencing each January 1 and ending the following December 31.
   
2.26  Share means a share of common stock of the Parent Corporation, and includes, but is not limited to, such shares as may be purchased directly by or for the Participant or through the American Electric Power Company, Inc. Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan or issued in connection with the Participants performance of services for AEP, such as pursuant to the American Electric Power System Long-Term Incentive Plan.
   
2.27  Share Equivalents is determined by reference to the amount credited to the Participants Career Share Account under this Plan and to the Participants AEP Stock Fund accounts maintained in connection with the American Electric Power Retirement Savings Plan, the American Electric Power System Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, and the American Electric Power System Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan. To the extent that the amount credited under these arrangements are not otherwise reported under the terms of the applicable plan as a number of shares of Common Stock, the number of Share Equivalents attributable to such amount shall be determined by dividing the dollar amount so credited by the Market Value of a Share determined as of the applicable valuation date. No certificates shall have been issued with respect to such Share Equivalents.
   
2.28  Termination means termination of employment with AEP for any reason.
   
2.29  Vested means that the Participant would not forfeit the Share or Share Equivalent upon the termination of the Participants employment with AEP for reasons other than the Participants death.
   
2.30  2006 Distribution Election Period means the period or periods designated by the Committee during which Participants (or Former Participants) are given the opportunity to select among the distribution options set forth in Article VII, provided that any such period shall end no later than December 31, 2006.
   
3.1  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full discretionary power and authority (i) to administer and interpret the terms and conditions of the Plan and (ii) to establish reasonable procedures with which Participants, Former Participant and beneficiaries must comply to exercise any right or privilege established hereunder. The rights and duties of the Participants and all other persons and entities claiming an interest under the Plan shall be subject to, and bound by, actions taken by or in connection with the exercise of the powers and authority granted under this Article.
   
3.2  The Committee may employ agents, attorneys, accountants, or other persons and allocate or delegate to them powers, rights, and duties all as the Committee may consider necessary or advisable to properly carry out the administration of the Plan.
   
3.3  The Company shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records showing the individual balances in each Participants Account, including each Participants Career Share Account. Statements setting forth the value of the amount credited to the Participant's Account shall be made available to each Participant no less often than once per year. The maintenance of the Account records and the distribution of statements may be delegated to a recordkeeper by either the Company or the Committee.
   
An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant as of the date that the Eligible Employee is first assigned a Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement.
5.1  
   
Accounts
.  The Committee shall establish and maintain an Account for each Participant that will record the number of Shares and Share Equivalents that have been designated in accordance with the terms of this Plan to satisfy the Minimum Stock Ownership Requirement applicable to such Participant.
   
5.2  
   
Share Commitment Designated by Participant
.
(a)
 
A Participant may from time to time designate that certain Shares or Share Equivalents that are owned by the Participant or otherwise credited to the Participant be credited to the Account of such Participant. A Participant shall be permitted to so designate any Shares or Share Equivalents only to the extent the following requirements have been satisfied:
(b)
 
Any designation made by a Participant under this Section shall be made in writing and in a form that is satisfactory to the Committee.
5.3  
   
Accrual of Career Shares
.
(a)
 
Determination Date.
For purposes of this Section 5.3, the term Determination Date means
(b)
 
Participant Has Not Satisfied MSOR.
 
If the same Determination Date applies to both the Performance Shares and the Annual Incentive Compensation for a particular Participant, the determination of whether the Participant has satisfied an applicable MSOR as of that Determination Date shall be made by applying the provisions of subsection (b)(i) of this Section before applying the provisions of subsection (b)(ii) of this Section. The Participants Career Share Account shall be credited even if the Participant shall have satisfied his or her MSOR or shall have ceased to remain an Eligible Employee during the period between the Determination Date and the date the Performance Shares or Annual Incentive Compensation are earned and Vested. However, if a Participant shall have no MSOR as of an applicable Determination Date by reason of the Participants having ceased to remain an Eligible Employee, the payment or deferral of the amounts that become payable to the Participant relative to Annual Incentive Compensation or as a result of an award of Performance Shares to which such Determination Date applies shall be determined in accordance with other plans and programs as may apply, including, for example, the Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan.
(c)
 
Participant Has Satisfied MSOR.
If a Participant has satisfied his or her MSOR on or before the applicable Determination Date, the payment or deferral of the amounts that become payable to the Participant relative to Annual Incentive Compensation or as a result of an award of Performance Shares shall be determined in accordance with other plans and programs as may apply, including, for example, the Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan.
5.4  
   
Holding Requirement For Exercised Stock Options.
  If a Participant has not satisfied the applicable MSOR on or before the close of the related MSOR Window Period, then, the Participant shall be required to retain until Termination all Shares acquired through stock options exercised by the Participant between the date immediately following the close of such MSOR Window Period until the date the Participant has satisfied such MSOR; provided, however, the Participant shall be permitted to cause the sale of such Shares as would allow the Participant to cover the costs and applicable taxes directly associated with such exercises. However, the retention requirement set forth in this Section 5.4 shall not apply once and so long as the Participant has no MSOR by reason of the Participants having ceased to remain an Eligible Employee.
   
6.1  
   
Reinvestment of Dividends
.  On each dividend payment date with respect to the Common Stock, the Career Share Account of a Participant shall be credited with an additional number of whole and fractional Share Equivalents, computed to three decimal places, equal to the product of the dividend per share then payable, multiplied by the number of Share Equivalents then credited to such Career Share Account, divided by the Market Value on the dividend payment date.
   
6.2 
   
Adjustments
.  The number of Share Equivalents credited to a Participants Career Share Account shall be appropriately adjusted for any change in the Common Stock by reason of any merger, reclassification, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split or any similar change affecting the Common Stock.
   
7.1  Upon a Participants Termination for any reason, the Company shall cause the Participant to be paid the full amount credited to his or her Career Share Account in accordance with the following rules:
   
(a)
 
Cash or Stock.
Payments may be made in cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both as elected by the Participant on a form that is acceptable to the Company and submitted within a reasonable period of time before the distribution is scheduled to commence. Cash payments of Career Shares shall be calculated on the basis of the average of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock for the last 20 trading days prior to the applicable distribution date (i.e., the Participants date of Termination, deferred distribution date, respective installment payment dates or the date of the Participants death, as the case may be).
(b)
 
Timing and Form of Distribution.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.2, the following rules shall apply with regard to the timing and form of the distributions to be made from the Participants Career Share Account:
7.2
  
   
Events Affecting Timing or Amount of Distributions
.
(a)
 
Election To Accelerate Payment of Career Shares Attributable to 12/10/2003 Performance Share Award.
Notwithstanding any provision of Section 7.1 to the contrary, if a Participant had not satisfied his or her MSOR on or before June 30, 2004 (the Determination Date applicable to the 12/10/2003 Performance Share Awards), but as of June 30, 2006 either (i) does satisfy his or her applicable MSOR(s) or (ii) has no applicable MSOR because the participant is longer an Eligible Employee, the Participant will be deemed to have elected as of June 30, 2006 a lump sum payment with respect to the Share or Share Equivalents that would have been credited to the Participants Career Share Account as a result of the 12/10/2003 Performance Share Award. Such payment shall be made as of the date that the 12/10/2003 Performance Share Awards otherwise would have become payable if the Participant were not a participant in this Plan.
(b)
 
Avoiding Violation of Applicable Law.
Notwithstanding any provision of Section 7.1 to the contrary, payment to a Participant will be delayed at any time that the Company reasonably anticipates that the making of such payment will violate Federal securities laws or other applicable law; provided however, that any payments so delayed shall be paid at the earliest date at which the Company reasonably anticipates that the making of such payment will not cause such violation.
8.1  Each Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall receive the balance of the Participant's Account if the Participant dies prior to the complete distribution of the Participant's Account. Any designation, or change or rescission of a beneficiary designation shall be made by the Participants completion, signature and submission to the Committee of the appropriate beneficiary form prescribed by the Committee. A beneficiary form shall take effect as of the date the form is signed provided that the Committee receives it before taking any action or making any payment to another beneficiary named in accordance with this Plan and any procedures implemented by the Committee. If any payment is made or other action is taken before a beneficiary form is received by the Committee, any changes made on a form received thereafter will not be given any effect. If a Participant fails to designate a beneficiary, or if all beneficiaries named by the Participant do not survive the Participant, the Participants Account will be paid to the Participants estate. Unless clearly specified otherwise in an applicable court order presented to the Committee prior to the Participants death, the designation of a Participants spouse as a beneficiary shall be considered automatically revoked as to that spouse upon the legal termination of the Participants marriage to that spouse.
   
8.2  Distribution to a Participants beneficiary shall be in the form of a single lump-sum payment within 60 days after the Committee makes a final determination as to the beneficiary or beneficiaries entitled to receive such distribution.
   
  9.1  The following procedures shall apply with respect to claims for benefits under the Plan.
   
   
(a)
 
Any Participant or beneficiary who believes he or she is entitled to receive a distribution under the Plan which he or she did not receive or that amounts credited to his or her Account are inaccurate, may file a written claim signed by the Participant, beneficiary or authorized representative with the Claims Reviewer, specifying the basis for the claim. The Claims Reviewer shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of its determination on the claim within ninety days after such claim was filed; provided, however, if the Claims Reviewer determines special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, the claimant shall receive within the initial ninety-day period a written notice of the extension for a period of up to ninety days from the end of the initial ninety day period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Plan expects to render the benefit determination.
(b)
 
If the Claims Reviewer renders an adverse benefit determination under Section 8.1(a), the notification to the claimant shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
  9.2  The following procedures shall apply with respect to the review on appeal of an adverse determination on a claim for benefits under the Plan.
   
   
(a)
 
Within sixty days after the receipt by the claimant of an adverse benefit determination, the claimant may appeal such denial by filing with the Committee a written request for a review of the claim. If such an appeal is filed within the sixty day period, the Committee, or a duly appointed representative of the Committee, shall conduct a full and fair review of such claim that takes into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The claimant shall be entitled to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for benefits and shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimants claim for benefits. If the claimant requests a hearing on the claim and the Committee concludes such a hearing is advisable and schedules such a hearing, the claimant shall have the opportunity to present the claimants case in person or by an authorized representative at such hearing.
(b)
 
The claimant shall be notified of the Committees benefit determination on review within sixty days after receipt of the claimants request for review, unless the Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the review. If the Committee determines that such an extension is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant within the initial sixty-day period. Any such extension shall not exceed a period of sixty days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee expects to render the benefit determination.
(c)
 
The Committee shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of the Plans benefit determination on review. The determination of the Committee shall be final and binding on all interested parties. Any adverse benefit determination on review shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
10.1  Each Participant agrees that as a condition of participation in the Plan, the Company may withhold applicable federal, state and local taxes, Social Security taxes and Medicare taxes from any deferral and distribution hereunder to the extent that such taxes are then payable.
   
10.2  In the event the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall find that a Participant or beneficiary is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or accident, the Committee may direct that any payment due the Participant or the beneficiary be paid to the duly appointed personal representative of the Participant or beneficiary, and any such payment so made shall be a complete discharge of the liabilities of the Plan and the Company with respect to such Participant or beneficiary.
   
10.3  The Company intends to continue the Plan indefinitely but reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to modify the Plan from time to time, or to terminate the Plan entirely or to direct the permanent discontinuance or temporary suspension of deferral contributions under the Plan; provided that no such modification, termination, discontinuance or suspension shall reduce the benefits accrued for the benefit of any Participant or beneficiary under the Plan as of the date of such modification, termination, discontinuance or suspension.
   
10.4  Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of AEP to terminate any Participants employment at any time, or confer upon a Participant any right to continue in the employ of AEP.
   
10.5  The Company intends the following with respect to this Plan: (1) Section 451(a) of the Code would apply to the Participant's recognition of gross income as a result of participation herein; (2) the Participants will not recognize gross income as a result of participation in the Plan unless and until and then only to the extent that distributions are received; (3) the Company will not receive a deduction for amount credited to any Account unless and until and then only to the extent that amounts are actually distributed; (4) the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA shall not be applicable; and (5) the design and administration of the Plan are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, to the extent such section is effective and applicable to amounts deferred hereunder. However, no Eligible Employee, Participant, beneficiary or any other person shall have any recourse against the Corporation, the Company, the Committee or any of their affiliates, employees, agents, successors, assigns or other representatives if any of those conditions are determined not to be satisfied.
   
10.6  The Plan shall be construed and administered according to the applicable provisions of ERISA and the laws of the State of Ohio.
   
American Electric Power Service Corporation has caused this amendment and restatement of the American Electric Power System Stock Ownership Requirement Plan to be signed as of this 30th day of May, 2006.
 
 
 


