FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20060126160734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
On January 25, 2006, the Board of Directors (the Board) of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Ralph D. Crosby, Jr. to serve as a director of the Company. Mr. Crosbys initial term as a director will continue until the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. The Board did not appoint Mr. Crosby to any committees.
Mr. Crosby, 58, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EADS North America, Inc. Mr. Crosby also is on the board of directors of Ducommun Incorporated.
The Board has determined that Mr. Crosby is an independent director under the Companys Corporate Governance guidelines and the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
As a non-employee director, Mr. Crosby will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee directors, as disclosed in the Companys most recent Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on March 14, 2005, as supplemented by the Companys Form 8-K dated December 14, 2005.
There are no arrangements between Mr. Crosby and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Crosby was elected to serve as a director, nor are there any transactions to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and in which Mr. Crosby has a material interest.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
January 26, 2006


