FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20070307155107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
As previously disclosed, in February 2007 the Texas District Court judge hearing the various appeals of the final true-up order for AEP Texas Central Company (TCC) issued a letter containing his preliminary determinations. He generally affirmed the April 4, 2006 final true-up order of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) with two significant exceptions. The judge ruled that the PUCT erred when it determined TCCs stranded cost using the sale of assets method instead of the Excess Cost Over Market (ECOM) method to value TCCs nuclear plant. The judge also determined that the PUCT erred when it concluded it was required to use the carrying cost rate specified in the true-up order. In response to a request by TCC, the District Court judge scheduled additional argument on March 22, 2007 regarding use of the ECOM method to value TCCs nuclear plant stranded cost.
On March 6, 2007, the District Court issued a second letter containing preliminary determinations. The second letter reversed the earlier ruling that the PUCT erred when it determined TCCs stranded cost using the sale of assets method instead of the ECOM method to value TCCs nuclear plant. As a result, the District Court has removed the hearing scheduled for March 22, 2007 from the docket. The second letter did not alter the judges earlier determination that the PUCT erred when it concluded it was required to use the carrying cost rate specified in the true-up order, which, if lowered on remand, could result in a material adverse change to TCCs recoverable carrying costs. The second letter also did not alter the judges earlier determination that the PUCT improperly reduced stranded costs in connection with the sales process, which could have a materially favorable effect on TCC.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
March 7, 2007


