FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20071213161607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
On December 12, 2007, the Board of Directors (the Board) of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Thomas E. Hoaglin to serve as a director of the Company.  Mr. Hoaglins initial term as a director will continue until the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders.  The Board did not appoint Mr. Hoaglin to any committees.
 
 Mr. Hoaglin is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Huntington Bankshares Incorporated.  Mr. Hoaglin is also on the board of directors of The Gorman-Rupp Company.
   
The Board has determined that Mr. Hoaglin is an independent director under the Companys Corporate Governance guidelines and the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
As a non-employee director, Mr. Hoaglin will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee directors.
There are no arrangements between Mr. Hoaglin and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Hoaglin was elected to serve as a director, nor are there any transactions to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and in which Mr. Hoaglin has a material interest.
Item 5.03                      
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Effective December 12, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company amended Section 14 of the Companys Bylaws, as amended (the Bylaws),  to provide for the issuance of uncertificated shares.  Eligibility for participation in a direct registration system operated by a securities depository requires that a companys corporate documents permit its stock to be issued in uncertificated form.  Accordingly, the Board approved an amendment to the Bylaws to permit the Companys stock to be issued in certificated or uncertificated form and to allow the transfer of shares without presentation of a stock certificate.
A direct registration program permits investors ownership to be recorded and maintained on the books of the Company or the transfer agent without the issuance of a physical stock certificate and allows investors to electronically transfer securities to broker-dealers in order to effect transactions without the risks and delays associated with transferring physical certificates.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment to the Bylaws approved by the Board, a copy of which is attached and incorporated herein as Exhibit 3.1 to this Form 8-K.
                      
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
December 13, 2007

Exhibit 3.1
Section 14.  The shares of stock of the Company shall be represented by a certificate or shall be uncertificated shares as provided for under New York law.  Shares in the capital stock of the Company shall be transferred or assigned on the books of the Company only upon (i) surrender to the Company or its transfer agent of a certificate representing shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation, or authority to transfer, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Company or its agents may reasonably require in the case of shares evidenced by a certificate or certificates or (ii) receipt of transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares reasonably acceptable to the Company and its agents (As amended December 12, 2007.)


