FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20070426080500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of American Electric Power Company, Inc.s financial results for the period ending March 31, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
April 26, 2007
 
 

COLUMBUS, Ohio, April 26 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ --
- 2007 first-quarter earnings: $0.68 per share GAAP and ongoing
- Company sees growth in retail sales; expansion in utility gross margin
shows benefit of rate relief in a number of jurisdictions
- Decline in earnings from prior period was expected because of planned
generation outages for completion of environmental projects, increased
expenses and an anticipated reduction in items that contributed to 2006
earnings
- AEP reaffirms 2007 ongoing earnings guidance range of between $2.85 and
$3.05 per share
 
 
American Electric Power (NYSE: AEP) today reported 2007 first-quarter
earnings, prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP), of $271 million, or $0.68 per share, compared with $381 million, or
$0.97 per share, for first-quarter 2006.
 
Ongoing earnings (earnings excluding special items) for first-quarter 2007
were $271 million, or $0.68 per share, compared with $378 million, or $0.96
per share, for first-quarter 2006.
 
There was no difference between GAAP and ongoing earnings for first-
quarter 2007. A full reconciliation of GAAP earnings to ongoing earnings for
the prior period is included in tables at the end of this news release.
 
"Our 2007 is off to a very good start," said Michael G. Morris, chairman,
president and chief executive officer of American Electric Power. "In the
first quarter, we saw the consistently solid financial and operational
performance we've come to expect from our utilities, as well as a continuation
of the strong performance by our MEMCO barge operations after its incredible
year in 2006.
 
"We saw growth in our retail sales in the first quarter and an expansion
of utility gross margin, a benefit of rate relief we received in a number of
our states in the second half of 2006," Morris said. "And MEMCO, despite being
hindered by a return to more normal winter river operating conditions, when
compared to milder weather in last year's first quarter, still had very good
results for the quarter."
 
In its planning for 2007, AEP identified factors that would lead to a
decline in earnings in the first quarter when compared to the prior period and
included those factors when establishing earnings guidance for the year,
Morris said.
 
"We knew that two of our large coal-fired power plants would be
unavailable in the quarter because of the scheduled completion of
environmental retrofits on the plants," Morris said. "We planned for the
increase in operating and maintenance expenses related to those projects and
for the temporary reduction in available generating capacity. Since completion
of the projects in the first quarter, plant performance from both a production
and environmental perspective has been excellent."
 
AEP also planned for an approximately $0.20-per-share decline in first-
quarter 2007 ongoing earnings from items that contributed to the 2006 results
but would be reduced or absent in 2007. The items were:
 
-- Elimination of the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment, or SECA rates,
that contributed to transmission gross margin in 2006 but ended on
April 1, 2006, in various AEP jurisdictions in the East; the rates were
put into place in December 2004 by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to offset the loss of through-and-out rates brought by a
change in the commission's authorized tariffs.
 
2
 
-- A reduction in the earnings-sharing payment from Centrica, the final
payment from AEP's participation in a multi-year earnings-sharing
mechanism established in 2002, when AEP sold its Texas retail
electricity providers to Centrica.
 
-- The reduction in gross margin from a sale of emissions credits that
contributed to first-quarter 2006 earnings. "With emissions credits,
we're opportunists and not regular market participants," Morris said.
 
"We sold credits last year when we saw an opportunity to take advantage
of incredibly high prices in the marketplace. We did not expect that
opportunity to be repeated this year."
AEP reaffirmed its ongoing guidance range for 2007 of between $2.85 and
$3.05 per share. In providing ongoing earnings guidance, there could be
differences between ongoing earnings and GAAP earnings for matters such as,
but not limited to, divestitures or changes in accounting principles. AEP
management is not able to estimate the impact, if any, on GAAP earnings of
these items.  Therefore, AEP is not able to provide a corresponding GAAP
equivalent for earnings guidance.
 
 
Ongoing earnings from Utility Operations decreased by $112 million during
the first quarter of 2007 when compared with the same period in 2006. Higher
gross margins from retail sales were more than offset by lower off-system
sales margins, higher operating expenses and a lower earnings-sharing payment
received from Centrica. AEP received $20 million in first-quarter 2007 from
the Centrica earnings-sharing agreement, compared to $70 million received in
first-quarter 2006.
 
3
Ongoing earnings from AEP's MEMCO barge operations were lower in first-
quarter 2007 than in the prior period, when MEMCO benefited from near-perfect
operating conditions and a strong freight market. Cold weather in the 2007
first quarter, representing a return to more normal winter weather, created
icy conditions typical for winter on the rivers and hindered MEMCO's
operations.
 
Generation and Marketing, which includes AEP's non-regulated generating,
marketing and risk management activities in the Electric Reliability Council
of Texas (ERCOT) market area, was down $5 million in first-quarter 2007 when
compared to the prior period because of an outage at the Oklaunion power plant
in Texas.
 
All Other, which includes the Parent Company and other investments,
improved by $16 million from the prior period. Included in the 2006 results
are the losses from operations at the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility that
was sold to Dow Chemical Company during fourth-quarter 2006.
 
 
4
Retail Sales -- The improvement in retail gross margins reflects the
results from new rates in the Ohio Companies and in AEP's integrated regulated
utilities in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky. Favorable weather when
compared to the prior year and increased usage added to the improvement. When
compared to the same period last year, heating degree-days in first-quarter
2007 were 25 percent higher in the East and 37 percent higher in the West's
SPP region, which includes AEP's Public Service Company of Oklahoma and
Southwestern Electric Power Company utility subsidiaries. When compared to
normal, heating degree-days were 1 percent higher in the East in the quarter
and 6 percent lower in the West.
 
Off-System Sales -- Gross margins from Off-System Sales for first-quarter
2007 were $41 million lower than in the same period in 2006. Decreased
physical sales from plants in the East were a primary factor in the decline in
gross margin. Opportunities for physical sales were limited by the reduction
in available generating capacity in the East because of the completion of the
environmental retrofits, and by the use of the remaining available generating
capacity to meet the increased demand from AEP's utility customers.
 
Transmission Revenues -- Transmission Revenues decreased $29 million in
the first quarter when compared to the prior period as a result of the
cessation of the SECA rates that contributed to earnings last year but ended
on April 1, 2006, in various AEP jurisdictions in the East.
Operations & Maintenance Expense -- O&M expenses increased by $111 million
in first-quarter 2007 when compared to the same period in 2006. Contributing
to the O&M increase in the quarter were higher tree management expenses,
including storm restoration costs incurred by AEP's Public Service Company of
Oklahoma utility subsidiary after a January 2007 ice storm, and increased
plant maintenance expenses.
 
5
Depreciation & Amortization -- The increase in Depreciation & Amortization
in first-quarter 2007, when compared to the prior period, is primarily
attributed to increased regulatory amortization at the Ohio Companies,
Appalachian Power and AEP Texas Central, and an increase in depreciable plant.
 
Interest Expense & Preferred Dividends -- Increased long-term debt,
including the issuance of securitization bonds at AEP Texas Central, led to
the increase in Interest Expense from the prior period.
 
Other Income & Deductions -- The lower earnings-sharing payment received
from Centrica was the primary reason for the decrease in Other Income &
Deductions when compared to the prior period.
American Electric Power's quarterly conference call with financial
analysts will be broadcast live over the Internet at 9 a.m. EDT today at
http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts . The webcast will include audio of the
conference call and visuals of charts and graphics referred to by AEP
management during the call. The charts and graphics will be available for
download at http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts .
 
The call will be archived on http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts for use by
those unable to listen during the live webcast. Archived calls are also
available as podcasts.
 
Minimum requirements to listen to broadcast: The Windows Media Player
software, free from http://windowsmedia.com/download , and at least a 56Kbps
connection to the Internet.
American Electric Power is one of the largest electric utilities in the
United States, delivering electricity to more than 5 million customers in 11
states. AEP ranks among the nation's largest generators of electricity, owning
nearly 38,000 megawatts of generating capacity in the U.S. AEP also owns the
nation's largest electricity transmission system, a nearly 39,000-mile network
that includes more 765 kilovolt extra-high voltage transmission lines than all
other U.S. transmission systems combined. AEP's transmission system directly
or indirectly serves about 10 percent of the electricity demand in the Eastern
Interconnection, the interconnected transmission system that covers 38 eastern 
and central U.S. states and eastern Canada, and approximately 11 percent of
the electricity demand in ERCOT, the transmission system that covers much of
Texas. AEP's utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power
(in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana
Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and
Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
AEP's headquarters are in Columbus, Ohio.
 
6
 
AEP's earnings are prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States and represent the company's earnings
as reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission. AEP's management
believes that the company's ongoing earnings, or GAAP earnings adjusted for
certain items as described in the news release and charts, provide a more
meaningful representation of the company's performance. AEP uses ongoing
earnings as the primary performance measurement when communicating with
analysts and investors regarding its earnings outlook and results. The company
also uses ongoing earnings data internally to measure performance against
budget and to report to AEP's board of directors.
 
This report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-
looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries
believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such
statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and
results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements are: electric load and customer growth; weather
conditions, including storms; available sources and costs of, and
transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness of fuel suppliers and
transporters; availability of generating capacity and the performance of AEP's
generating plants; AEP's ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded
costs in connection with deregulation; AEP's ability to recover increases in
fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates;
AEP's ability to build or acquire generating capacity when needed at
acceptable prices and terms and to recover those costs through applicable rate
cases or competitive rates; new legislation, litigation and government
regulation including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen,
mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances; timing and
resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory
decisions (including rate or other recovery for new investments, transmission
service and environmental compliance); resolution of litigation (including
pending Clean Air Act enforcement actions and disputes arising from the
bankruptcy of Enron Corp. and related matters); AEP's ability to constrain
operation and maintenance costs; the economic climate and growth in AEP's
service territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns;
inflationary and interest rate trends; AEP's ability to develop and execute a
strategy based on a view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas and
other energy-related commodities; changes in the creditworthiness of the
counterparties with whom AEP has contractual arrangements, including
participants in the energy trading market; actions of rating agencies,
including changes in the ratings of debt; volatility and changes in markets
for electricity, natural gas and other energy-related commodities; changes in
utility regulation, including the potential for new legislation or regulation
in Ohio and membership in and integration into regional transmission
organizations; accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting
standard-setting bodies; the performance of AEP's pension and other
postretirement benefit plans; prices for power that AEP generates and sell at
wholesale; changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing
or alternative sources of generation; other risks and unforeseen events,
including wars, the effects of terrorism (including increased security costs),
embargoes and other catastrophic events.
 
7
 
 
Note: For analysis purposes, certain financial statement amounts have been
reclassified for this effect on earnings presentation.
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
* 2007 Actual vs. Normal
(a) The energy summary represents load supplied by AEP.
Delivery of energy by Texas Wires supplied by others is not included.
(b) Includes Off-System Sales, Texas Supply, Municipalities and
Cooperatives, Unit Power, and Other Wholesale Customers.
(c) Heating Degree Days temperature base is 55 degrees
(d) Cooling Degree Days temperature base is 65 degrees
 
 
10


