FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20080410131405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
On April 4, 2008, American Electric Power Company, Inc., Appalachian Power Company, Columbus Southern Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Ohio Power Company, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company (collectively, the Borrowers) entered into a $650,000,000 3-Year Credit Agreement, dated April 4, 2008, among the Borrowers, AEP Texas Central Company, AEP Texas North Company, Kentucky Power Company, the Initial Lenders named therein, the Swingline Bank party thereto, the LC Issuing Banks party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
On April 4, 2008, American Electric Power Company, Inc., Appalachian Power Company, Columbus Southern Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Ohio Power Company, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company (collectively, the Borrowers) also entered into a $350,000,000 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated April 4, 2008, among the Borrowers, AEP Texas Central Company, AEP Texas North Company, Kentucky Power Company, the Initial Lenders named therein, the Swingline Bank party thereto, the LC Issuing Banks party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrowings and letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreements are available upon customary terms and conditions for facilities of this type.  Our revolving credit agreements contain certain covenants and require the Borrowers to maintain their respective percentage of debt to total capitalization at a level that does not exceed 67.5%.  The method for calculating outstanding debt and other capital is contractually defined in the credit agreements.  Nonperformance by a Borrower of these covenants could result in an event of default under these credit agreements for such Borrower.  The acceleration of a Borrowers payment obligations, or the obligations of certain of their respective subsidiaries, prior to maturity under any other agreement or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million would cause an event of default under these credit agreements for such Borrower and permit the lenders to declare such Borrowers outstanding amounts payable.  The two revolving credit facilities do not permit the lenders to refuse a draw on either facility if a material adverse change occurs.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
April 10, 2008


