FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20090127163550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
On January 27, 2009, the Board of Directors (the Board) of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Sara Martinez Tucker to serve as a director of the Company.  Ms. Tuckers initial term as a director will continue until the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.  The Board appointed Ms. Tucker to the Policy Committee.
Ms. Tucker was formerly undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Education and the past president and chief executive officer of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund.
The Board has determined that Ms. Tucker is an independent director under the Companys Corporate Governance guidelines and the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
As a non-employee director, Ms. Tucker will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee directors.
There are no arrangements between Ms. Tucker and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Tucker was elected to serve as a director, nor are there any transactions to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and in which Ms. Tucker has a material interest.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
January 27, 2009


