FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20091029075959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of American Electric Power Company, Inc.s financial results for the period ending September 30, 2009.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
October 29, 2009
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AEP REPORTS 2009 THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS
  
 
 
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 29, 2009  American Electric Power (NYSE: AEP) today reported 2009 third-quarter earnings, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), of $443 million, or $0.93 per share, compared with $374 million, or $0.93 per share, for third-quarter 2008.
 
There were no special items in the quarter, so the GAAP comparison for the quarter is the same as the comparison for ongoing earnings (earnings excluding special items).
 
The third-quarter 2009 per-share results reflect the dilutive effect of additional shares outstanding, which reduced ongoing earnings by $0.17 per share when compared with the prior year.
 
A full reconciliation of GAAP earnings to ongoing earnings for the quarter and year to date is included in tables at the end of this news release.
 
1
 
Were pleased with our results, especially considering the number of factors that worked against us in the third quarter, said Michael G. Morris, AEP chairman, president and chief executive officer. This was the coolest summer in 30 years for the Eastern states that we serve and the fourth-coolest summer in 30 years for our customers in the Southwest Power Pool  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and northeast Texas. The cool summer weather reduced both retail and wholesale sales.
 
Of course, the economy remains a significant factor, Morris said. Our sales to industrial customers in the third quarter were down 17 percent from a year ago, but thats a slight improvement from second quarter, when industrial sales were down 20 percent. We did see an increase in sales to several large metals customers from second quarter to third quarter. We hope thats a sign of better things to come, but we dont see it as a cause for celebration yet.
 
Morris noted that states served by AEP are more industrialized and export oriented than many other areas of the United States, so the impact of the worldwide economic decline on industrial production was more severe in these regions than in other parts of the country.
 
The economy will improve, but its going to take some time, Morris said. Fortunately, the export market may recover more rapidly. Until then, we will continue to keep tight control on our spending.
AEP tightened its ongoing earnings guidance range for 2009 to between $2.90 and $3.05 per share, reflecting year-to-date performance in the upper half of the previous ongoing guidance range of between $2.75 and $3.05 per share. In providing ongoing earnings guidance, there could be differences between ongoing earnings and GAAP earnings for matters such as, but not limited to, divestitures or changes in accounting principles. AEP management is not able to estimate the impact, if any, on GAAP earnings of these items. Therefore, AEP is not able to provide a corresponding GAAP equivalent for earnings guidance.
 
 
EPS based on 402mm shares in Q3 2008, 477mm in Q3 2009, 402mm in 9 mo. 2008 and 452mm in 9 mo. 2009
 
2
 
Ongoing earnings from Utility Operations increased by $88 million in third-quarter 2009 compared with the same period last year, reflecting increased rates throughout AEPs utility footprint and lower operation and maintenance expenses. These favorable items were somewhat offset by a reduction in both sales to industrial customers and off-system sales and the increase in capital-driven other expenses, such as depreciation and interest expenses, from the prior period.
 
AEP River Operations results were slightly lower than in the same period last year because of a decline in barge freight revenue as a result of a weak import market.
 
Ongoing earnings for Generation and Marketing decreased $11 million during third-quarter 2009 from the same period last year, primarily because of lower gross margins at the Oklaunion Power Station related to lower power prices in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT). Generation and Marketing includes AEPs non-regulated generating, marketing and risk management activities, primarily in the ERCOT area.
 
All Other, which includes the parent company and other investments, was lower in third-quarter 2009 when compared with the same period last year.
 
ONGOING RESULTS FROM UTILITY OPERATIONS
 
EPS based on 402mm shares in Q3 2008, 477mm in Q3 2009, 402mm in 9 mo. 2008 and 452 mm in 9 mo. 2009
Results for third-quarter 2009 improved from the same period last year, primarily because of the impact of rate changes in both AEPs Eastern and Western service areas. The positive impact of the rate changes was somewhat offset by lower sales to industrial customers. Unfavorable weather, primarily in AEPs Eastern service area, decreased margins by $42 million compared with the same period in 2008; cooling degree-days in third-quarter 2009 were 28 percent below normal and 23 percent below the total for the same period in 2009. In AEPs Western service area, cooling degree-days in third-quarter 2009 were 17 percent below normal and 7 percent below the prior period.
Retail Sales 
 
Gross margins from Off-System Sales for third-quarter 2009 were $226 million lower than those in the same period last year. Volumes and prices were depressed by continued weak market demand, reflecting the struggling economy and mild weather in the Eastern territory.
Off-System Sales 
 
3
 
Revenues from transmission increased $10 million in third-quarter 2009 from the prior period, primarily from AEPs transmission in the ERCOT and SPP regions.
Transmission Revenues 
 
The increase in Other Operating Revenue from the same period in 2009 is primarily because of the accidental outage insurance payments related to the September 2008 turbine vibration and subsequent outage at the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman, Mich. A portion of these insurance proceeds is used to reduce bills to Indiana and Michigan customers.
Other Operating Revenue 
 
Operations & Maintenance Expense for the quarter decreased $52 million from the same period last year, primarily because of lower storm restoration and plant operating and maintenance expenses.
Operations & Maintenance Expense 
 
 
The increasein Depreciation & Amortization from third-quarter 2008 is primarily attributed to an increase in plant balances and a higher depreciation rate at Ohio Power.
Depreciation & Amortization 
 
 
The increase from third-quarter 2008 is primarily due to increased property taxes.
Taxes, Other than Income Taxes 
 
The increase in Interest Expense for third-quarter 2009 is primarily because of increased long-term debt.
Interest Expense & Preferred Dividends 
 
 
Other Income & Deductions decreased in third-quarter 2009, primarily because of lower carrying-cost income and lower interest income, somewhat offset by increased Allowance for Funds Used During Construction.
Other Income & Deductions 
American Electric Powers quarterly conference call with financial analysts will be broadcast live over the Internet at 9 a.m. EDT today at http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts. The webcast will include audio of the conference call and visuals of charts and graphics referred to by AEP management during the call. The charts and graphics will be available for download at http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts .
 
The call will be archived on http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts for those unable to listen during the live webcast. Archived calls also are available as podcasts.
 
Minimum requirements to listen to broadcast: The Windows Media Player software, free from http://windowsmedia.com/download, and at least a 56Kbps connection to the Internet.
 
4
 
American Electric Power is one of the largest electric utilities in the United States, delivering electricity to more than 5 million customers in 11 states. AEP ranks among the nations largest generators of electricity, owning nearly 38,000 megawatts of generating capacity in the U.S. AEP also owns the nations largest electricity transmission system, a nearly 39,000-mile network that includes more 765-kilovolt extra-high voltage transmission lines than all other U.S. transmission systems combined. AEPs transmission system directly or indirectly serves about 10 percent of the electricity demand in the Eastern Interconnection, the interconnected transmission system that covers 38 eastern and central U.S. states and eastern Canada, and approximately 11 percent of the electricity demand in ERCOT, the transmission system that covers much of Texas. AEPs utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas). AEPs headquarters are in Columbus, Ohio.
 
This report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are: electric load and customer growth; weather conditions, including storms; available sources and costs of, and transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters; availability of necessary generating capacity and the performance of AEPs generating plants, including AEPs ability to restore Indiana Michigan Powers Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Unit 1 in a timely manner; AEPs ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded costs in connection with deregulation; AEPs ability to recover increases in fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates; AEPs ability to build or acquire generating capacity, including the John W. Turk Jr. Plant, and transmission line facilities (including the ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals and permits) when needed at acceptable prices and terms and to recover those costs (including the costs of projects that are canceled) through applicable rate cases or competitive rates; new legislation, litigation and government regulation, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances that could impact the continued operations of AEPs plants; timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions (including rate or other recovery of new investments in generation, distribution and transmission service and environmental compliance); resolution of litigation (including the dispute with Bank of America); AEPs ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs; the economic climate and growth or contraction in AEPs service territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns; inflationary or deflationary interest rate trends; volatility in the financial markets, particularly developments affecting the availability of capital on reasonable terms and developments impairing AEPs ability to finance new capital projects and refinance existing debt at attractive rates; the availability and cost of funds to finance working capital and capital needs, particularly during periods when the time lag between incurring costs and recovery is long and the costs are material; AEPs ability to develop and execute a strategy based on a view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related commodities; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom AEP has contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading market; actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt; volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and other energy-related commodities; changes in utility regulation, including the implementation of the recently passed utility law in Ohio and the allocation of costs within regional transmission organizations, including PJM and SPP; accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting standard-setting bodies; the impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the investments held by AEPs pension, other postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust and the impact on future funding requirements; prices and demand for power that AEP generates and sells at wholesale; changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing or alternative sources of generation; and other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of terrorism (including increased security costs), embargoes and other catastrophic events.
 
5
 
Note:For analysis purposes, certain financial statement amounts have been reclassified for this effect on earnings presentation.
 
6
 
 
7
 
(a) Includes energy delivered to customers served by AEP's Texas Wires Companies
(b) Includes Off-System Sales, Municipalities and Cooperatives, Unit Power, and Other Wholesale Customers.
 
8
 
Note:For analysis purposes, certain financial statement amounts have been reclassified for this effect on earnings presentation.
 
9
 
 
10
 
(a) Includes energy delivered to customers served by AEP's Texas Wires Companies
(b) Includes Off-System Sales, Municipalities and Cooperatives, Unit Power, and Other Wholesale Customers.
 
11
 


