FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20090731074409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of American Electric Power Company, Inc.s financial results for the period ending June 30, 2009.
(c)           Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1                                Press Release dated July 31, 2009
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
July 31, 2009
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 

 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AEP REPORTS 2009 SECOND-QUARTER EARNINGS
 
 
 
 
 
COLUMBUS, Ohio, July 31, 2009  American Electric Power (NYSE: AEP) today reported 2009 second-quarter earnings, prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), of $316 million, or $0.67 per share, compared with $281 million, or $0.70 per share, for second-quarter 2008.
 
Ongoing earnings (earnings excluding special items) for second-quarter 2009 were $321 million, or $0.68 per share, compared with $280 million, or $0.70 per share, for second-quarter 2008. The second-quarter 2009 per-share results reflect the dilutive effect of additional shares outstanding, which reduced ongoing earnings by $0.12 per share when compared to the prior year.
 
GAAP earnings were lower than ongoing earnings by $5 million for the quarter, primarily because of the reapplication of cost-of-service regulation for the generation portion of electric utility service for the Texas jurisdiction of AEPs Southwestern Electric Power Co. utility. A full reconciliation of GAAP earnings to ongoing earnings for the quarter and year to date is included in tables at the end of this news release.
 
1
 
Were pleased with our results for the quarter in light of the continued weak economy, said Michael G. Morris, AEP chairman, president and chief executive officer. Our ongoing earnings for the quarter increased from the same period last year, and earnings per share were comparable to last years even with a greater number of shares issued. The increase is attributed to improved rate structures in a number of our states and to our successful efforts to control costs.
 
But the effects of the weak economy are obvious, Morris said. Electricity sold to industrial customers decreased from the same period last year. Off-system sales  electricity sold into the wholesale market  were down significantly from last year.
 
AEP reaffirmed its ongoing earnings guidance range for 2009 of between $2.75 and $3.05 per share. In providing ongoing earnings guidance, there could be differences between ongoing earnings and GAAP earnings for matters such as, but not limited to, divestitures or changes in accounting principles. AEP management is not able to estimate the impact, if any, on GAAP earnings of these items. Therefore, AEP is not able to provide a corresponding GAAP equivalent for earnings guidance.
 
 
 
EPS based on 402mm shares in Q2 2008, 472mm in Q2 2009, 401mm in 6 mo. 2008 and 440mm in 6 mo. 2009
 
Ongoing earnings from Utility Operations increased by $63 million in second-quarter 2009 when compared with the same period last year, primarily because of increased rates in AEPs utilities in Virginia, Indiana and Oklahoma; the implementation of the Electric Security Plan (ESP) approved by regulators in Ohio, including the activation of a fuel clause; and lower operation and maintenance expenses. These favorable items were somewhat offset by a reduction in both sales to industrial customers and off-system sales and the growth in capital-driven other expenses, such as depreciation and interest expenses, from the prior period.
 
AEP River Operations ongoing earnings were lower than in the same period last year because of reduced imports, which reduce barge freight demand, pressure spot market freight rates and increase the costs of relocating empty barges.
 
2
 
Ongoing earnings for Generation and Marketing decreased $22 million during second-quarter 2009 from the same period last year primarily because of lower gross margins from marketing activities, lower power prices in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) and an extended planned outage at the Oklaunion Power Station. Earnings from wind farms were lower as a result of decreased wind generation and increased curtailments. Generation and Marketing includes AEPs non-regulated generating, marketing and risk management activities, primarily in the ERCOT area.
 
All Other, which includes the parent company and other investments, was favorable in second-quarter 2009 when compared with the same period last year.
 
 
 
EPS based on 402mm shares in Q2 2008, 472mm in Q2 2009, 401mm in 6 mo. 2008 and 440mm in 6 mo. 2009
 
Results for second-quarter 2009 were improved from the same period last year primarily because of the impact of rate changes in Virginia, Indiana and Oklahoma and the implementation of the Ohio ESP, which includes the activation of a fuel clause at the Ohio Companies. The positive impact of the rate changes was somewhat offset by lower sales to industrial customers. Favorable weather, primarily in AEPs eastern service areas, improved margins in the quarter. Heating degree-days in second-quarter 2009 were 9 percent below normal but 15 percent above the total for the same period in 2008. Cooling degree-days in second-quarter 2009 were 5 percent above normal and 8 percent above the prior period. In AEPs western service areas, cooling-degree days for second-quarter 2009 were 2 percent above normal but 1 percent below the prior period.
Retail Sales 
 
Gross margins from Off-System Sales for second-quarter 2009 were $155 million lower than those in the same period last year. Volumes and prices were depressed by continued weak market demand.
Off-System Sales 
 
3
 
Revenues from transmission increased $8 million in second-quarter 2009 from the prior period, primarily from AEPs transmission in the ERCOT and Southwest Power Pool regions.
Transmission Revenues 
 
The increase in Other Operating Revenue from second-quarter 2009 is because of a variety of non-tariff revenues, including the receipt of accidental outage insurance payments related to the September 2008 turbine vibration and subsequent fire at the Cook Nuclear Plant.
Other Operating Revenue 
 
Operations & Maintenance Expense 
 
Operations & Maintenance Expense for the quarter decreased $35 million from the same period last year, primarily because of
lower plant outage expenses than in the prior period.
 
The increasein Depreciation & Amortization from second-quarter 2008 is primarily attributed to an increase in plant balances and a higher depreciation rate at Ohio Power.
Depreciation & Amortization 
 
 
The increase in Interest Expense for second-quarter 2009 is primarily because of increased long-term debt and higher interest rates.
Interest Expense & Preferred Dividends 
 
 
Other Income & Deductions decreased in second-quarter 2009, primarily because of interest income related to a claim for a federal tax refund in 2008 and lower carrying-cost income.
Other Income & Deductions 
 
American Electric Powers quarterly conference call with financial analysts will be broadcast live over the Internet at 9 a.m. EDT today at . The webcast will include audio of the conference call and visuals of charts and graphics referred to by AEP management during the call. The charts and graphics will be available for download at .
http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts
http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts
 
The call will be archived on for those unable to listen during the live webcast. Archived calls also are available as podcasts.
http://www.aep.com/go/webcasts
 
Minimum requirements to listen to broadcast: The Windows Media Player software, free from http://windowsmedia.com/download, and at least a 56Kbps connection to the Internet.
 
American Electric Power is one of the largest electric utilities in the United States, delivering electricity to more than 5 million customers in 11 states. AEP ranks among the nations largest generators of electricity, owning nearly 38,000 megawatts of generating capacity in the U.S. AEP also owns the nations largest electricity transmission system, a nearly 39,000-mile network that includes more 765-kilovolt extra-high voltage transmission lines than all other U.S. transmission systems combined. AEPs transmission system directly or indirectly serves about 10 percent of the electricity demand in the Eastern Interconnection, the interconnected transmission system that covers 38 eastern and central U.S. states and eastern Canada, and approximately 11 percent of the electricity demand in ERCOT, the transmission system that covers much of Texas. AEPs utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas). AEPs headquarters are in Columbus, Ohio.
 
4
AEPs earnings are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and represent the companys earnings as reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission. AEPs management believes that the companys ongoing earnings, or GAAP earnings adjusted for certain items as described in the news release and charts, provide a more meaningful representation of the companys performance. AEP uses ongoing earnings as the primary performance measurement when communicating with analysts and investors regarding its earnings outlook and results. The company also uses ongoing earnings data internally to measure performance against budget and to report to AEPs board of directors.
 
This report made by American Electric Power and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are: electric load and customer growth; weather conditions, including storms; available sources and costs of, and transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters; availability of generating capacity and the performance of AEPs generating plants; AEPs ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded costs in connection with deregulation; AEPs ability to recover increases in fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates; AEPs ability to build or acquire generating capacity (including the ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals and permits) when needed at acceptable prices and terms and to recover those costs (including the costs of projects that are canceled) through applicable rate cases or competitive rates; new legislation, litigation and government regulation, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances; timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions (including rate or other recovery of new investments in generation, distribution and transmission service and environmental compliance); resolution of litigation (including disputes arising from the bankruptcy of Enron Corp. and related matters); AEPs ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs; the economic climate and growth or contraction in AEPs service territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns; inflationary and interest rate trends; volatility in the financial markets, particularly developments affecting the availability of capital on reasonable terms and developments impacting AEPs ability to refinance existing debt at attractive rates; AEPs ability to develop and execute a strategy based on a view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related commodities; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom AEP has contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets; actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt; volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and other energy-related commodities; changes in utility regulation, including the implementation of the recently passed utility law in Ohio and the allocation of costs within regional transmission organizations; accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting standard-setting bodies; the impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the investments held by AEPs pension, other postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust and the impact on future funding requirements; prices for power that AEP generates and sells at wholesale; changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing or alternative sources of generation; and other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of terrorism (including increased security costs), embargoes and other catastrophic events.
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 


