FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20090501163545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
As previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP), Ohio Power Company (OPCo) and Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCo) (collectively, the Company) (the 2008 Annual Reports), effective as of January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the provisions of the accounting pronouncement of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) titled Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160,   The statement requires noncontrolling interests be reported in equity and establishes a new framework for recognizing net income or loss and comprehensive income by the controlling interest.   
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
.
The adoption of this statement retrospectively reclassifies amounts presented in the Company financial statements; however, the adoption has no impact on AEPs previously reported earnings per share or common shareholders equity and has no impact on the amount of OPCos or SWEPCos previously reported earnings applicable to common stock or common shareholders equity.
All other information in the 2008 Annual Reports remains unchanged. This Current Report on Form 8-K does not reflect events or developments that occurred after February 27, 2009, and does not modify or update the disclosures therein in any way, other than as required to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 of FASB as described above and set forth in the attachments below, which are incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the 2008 Annual Report and any documents filed by the Company subsequent to February 27, 2009.
(d)        Exhibits:
Exhibit 12  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges - AEP, OPCo and SWEPCo
Exhibit 23  Consents from Deloitte & Touche LLP - AEP, OPCo and SWEPCo
Exhibit 99.1  Management Discussion and Analysis, Financial Statements and Footnote Disclosures for AEP, OPCo and SWEPCo
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
May 1, 2009 

EXHIBIT 12
 
 
 

Exhibit 23
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-39402, 333-46360, 333-128273, 333-66048, 333-62278 and 333-128043 on Form S-8, Post-Effective Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement No. 33-01052 on Form S-8, and Registration Statement Nos. 333-155646 and 333-156387 on Form S-3 of our report dated February 27, 2009 (May 1, 2009 as to the effects of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 160, (SFAS 160), and related disclosure in Notes 2, 10, 12 and 17), relating to the financial statements of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and subsidiary companies (which report expressed an unqualified opinion and included explanatory paragraphs concerning the adoption of new accounting pronouncements in 2007 and 2006 and retrospective adjustments related to the adoption of SFAS 160) appearing in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 1, 2009 for American Electric Power Company, Inc.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
 
 
Columbus, Ohio
May 1, 2009
 

 
2008 Annual Reports
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
Ohio Power Company Consolidated
Southwestern Electric Power Company Consolidated
Audited Financial Statements and
Managements Financial Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below.
 
 
 
This report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are:
 
 
 
The AEP common stock quarterly high and low sales prices, quarter-end closing price and the cash dividends paid per share are shown in the following table:
AEP common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange.  At December 31, 2008, AEP had approximately  100,000 registered shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP) is one of the largest investor-owned electric public utility holding companies in the United States.  Our electric utility operating companies provide generation, transmission and distribution services to more than five million retail customers in Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.
We operate an extensive portfolio of assets including:
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
OUTLOOK FOR 2009
We remain focused on the fundamental earning power of our utilities and are committed to maintaining our credit quality and liquidity.  To achieve our goals we plan to:
There are, nevertheless, certain risks and challenges that must be overcome including:
Regulatory Activity
In 2009, our significant regulatory activities will include:
Capital Markets
As a result of domestic and world economic slowdowns in 2008, the financial markets have become increasingly unstable and constrained at both a global and domestic level.  This systemic marketplace distress is impacting our access to capital, liquidity, asset valuations in our trust funds, the creditworthy status of customers, suppliers and trading partners and our cost of capital.  Our financial staff actively manages these factors with oversight from our risk committee.  The uncertainties in the capital markets could have significant implications since we rely on continuing access to capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.
The current credit markets are constraining our ability to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and to refinance existing debt.  We cannot predict the length of time the current capital market situation will continue or its impact on future operations and our ability to issue debt at reasonable interest rates.  If market conditions improve, we plan to repay portions of the amounts drawn under the credit facilities and issue commercial paper and long-term debt.
We believe that we have adequate liquidity to support our planned business operations and construction program through 2009 due to the following:
Approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding long-term debt will mature in 2010, excluding payments due for securitization bonds which we recover directly from ratepayers.  In conjunction with the upcoming resolution of the Ohio ESPs, we will be reevaluating our operating and financial plans and those plans could possibly include debt and/or equity issuances.
We have significant investments in several trust funds to provide for future payments of pensions, OPEB, nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal.  Although all of our trust funds investments are diversified and managed in compliance with all laws and regulations, the value of the investments in these trusts declined substantially in 2008 due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are currently lower, this has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.  As of December 31, 2008, the decline in pension asset values will not require us to make a contribution under ERISA in 2009.  We currently estimate that we will need to make minimum contributions to our pension trust of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011.  However, estimates may vary significantly based on market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.
We have risk management contracts with numerous counterparties.  Since open risk management contracts are valued based on changes in market prices of the related commodities, our exposures change daily. Our risk management organization monitors these exposures on a daily basis to limit our economic and financial statement impact on a counterparty basis.  At December 31, 2008, our credit exposure net of collateral was approximately $764 million of which approximately 92% is to investment grade counterparties.  At December 31, 2008, our exposure to financial institutions was $80 million, which represents 11% of our total credit exposure net of collateral (all investment grade).
Economic Slowdown
Following the indications of a slowing economy in 2007, the U.S. economy experienced what some have labeled a financial crisis in 2008.  These economic troubles impacted and will continue to impact our residential, commercial and industrial sales as well as sales opportunities in the wholesale market.  Most sections of our service territories are experiencing slowdowns in new construction, resulting in our residential and commercial customer base growing at a decreased rate.  Starting in the fourth quarter of 2008, various sections of our service territories also experienced decreases in industrial sales due to temporary shutdowns and reduced shifts by some of our large industrial customers.  We expect these trends to continue throughout 2009.
Capital Expenditures
Due to recent capital market instability and the economic slowdown, we reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 by $750 million:
The reduction in capital spending will reduce our need to access the capital markets in 2009.  While many of these cutbacks involve the delay of certain capital projects into future years, these reductions will not jeopardize the reliability of the AEP System.  Projected capital expenditures for 2010 are currently under review.
Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown
In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $330 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendors warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  Our current analysis indicates that with successful repairs and timely parts deliveries, Unit 1 could resume operations as early as September 2009 at reduced power.  If the rotors cannot be repaired, replacement of parts will extend the outage into 2010.
Fuel Costs
Coal prices increased by approximately 29% in 2008 due to several factors including escalating market prices and increased demand, primarily in our eastern region as a result of the expiration of lower-priced coal and transportation contracts being replaced with higher-priced contracts.  During 2008, we had price risk exposure in Ohio, representing approximately 20% of our fuel costs.  For 2009, we expect our coal costs to increase by approximately 15%.We have active fuel cost recovery mechanisms in all of our jurisdictions except Ohio.  We expect the PUCO to reinstate a fuel cost recovery mechanism.  An order on the ESPs is expected before the end of the first quarter of 2009.  In January 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application requesting the PUCO to authorize deferred fuel accounting beginning January 1, 2009.
 
2008 RESULTS
We had many accomplishments in 2008, including strong earnings despite the economic climate.  Our earnings per-share increased in 2008 to $3.43 per share.  We completed construction of new generating units at our Southwestern Station and Riverside Station in Oklahoma and continued construction of the Stall Unit, Turk Plant and Dresden Plant generating facilities in Louisiana, Arkansas and Ohio, respectively.  We also continued our pursuit of joint venture opportunities to invest in transmission facilities in PJM, ERCOT and other regions.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Segments
Our primary business is our electric utility operations.  Within our Utility Operations segment, we centrally dispatch generation assets and manage our overall utility operations on an integrated basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight.  While our Utility Operations segment remains our primary business segment, other segments include our AEP River Operations segment with significant barging activities and our Generation and Marketing segment, which includes our nonregulated generating, marketing and risk management activities primarily in the ERCOT market area.  Intersegment sales and transfers are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements.
Our reportable segments and their related business activities are as follows:
Utility Operations
AEP River Operations
Generation and Marketing
The table below presents our consolidated Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss by segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
AEP Consolidated
2008 Compared to 2007
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss in 2008 increased $223 million compared to 2007 primarily due to income from the cash settlement received in 2008 related to a disputed purchase power and sale agreement with TEM, the 2008 deferral of Oklahoma ice storm expenses incurred in 2007 and base rate increases in our Ohio, Texas and Virginia service territories.  These increases over 2007 were partially offset by higher interest expense and fuel expense and a provision for refund recorded to reflect the impact of an order issued in November 2008 by the FERC regarding the affiliate allocation of off-system sales margins under the SIA and the CSW Operating Agreement.
Average basic shares outstanding increased to 402 million in 2008 from 399 million in 2007 primarily due to the issuance of shares under our incentive compensation and dividend reinvestment plans.  Actual shares outstanding were 406 million as of December 31, 2008.  In 2008, we contributed 1,250,000 shares of common stock held in treasury to the AEP Foundation.
2007 Compared to 2006
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss in 2007 increased $152 million compared to 2006 primarily due to a $136 million after-tax impairment recorded in 2006 related to the sale of the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility.  Despite retail rate increases implemented in Ohio, Kentucky, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia and favorable weather, Utility Operations earnings were essentially flat due to increases in interest expense, operation and maintenance expenses related to storm restoration in Oklahoma and the NSR settlement.
Average basic shares outstanding increased to 399 million in 2007 from 394 million in 2006 primarily due to the issuance of shares under our incentive compensation and dividend reinvestment plans.  Actual shares outstanding were 400 million as of December 31, 2007.
Our results of operations are discussed below by operating segment.
Utility Operations
Our Utility Operations segment includes primarily regulated revenues with direct and variable offsetting expenses and net reported commodity trading operations.  We believe that a discussion of the results from our Utility Operations segment on a gross margin basis is most appropriate in order to further understand the key drivers of the segment.  Gross margin represents utility operating revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased power.
Cooling degree days and heating degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the impact of weather on net income.  In general, degree day changes in our eastern region have a larger effect on net income than changes in our western region due to the relative size of the two regions and the number of customers within each region.
2008 Compared to 2007
Income from Utility Operations Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss increased $83 million to $1,123 million in 2008.  The key drivers of the increase were a $127 million increase in Gross Margin offset by a $15 million increase in Operating Expenses and Other and a $29 million increase in Income Tax Expense.
The major components of the net increase in Gross Margin were as follows:
Utility Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
2007 Compared to 2006
Income from Utility Operations Before Discontinued Operation and Extraordinary Loss of $1,040 million in 2007 was essentially flat when compared to 2006.  An increase of $475 million in Gross Margin and a decrease of $57 million in Income Tax Expense were offset by an increase of $529 million in Operating Expenses and Other.
The major components of the net increase in Gross Margin were as follows:
Utility Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
AEP River Operations
2008 Compared to 2007
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from our AEP River Operations segment decreased from $61 million in 2007 to $55 million in 2008 primarily due to rising diesel fuel prices, travel restrictions caused by significant flooding on various internal waterways throughout 2008, the impact of Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and other adverse operating conditions.  Additionally, decreases in import demand and grain export demand have resulted in lower freight demand, largely the result of a slowing U.S. economy.
2007 Compared to 2006
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from our AEP River Operations segment decreased from $80 million in 2006 to $61 million in 2007.  AEP River Operations operated approximately 10% more barges in 2007 than 2006; however, revenue remained flat as reduced imports, primarily steel and cement continued to depress freight rates and reduce northbound loadings.  Operating expenses were up for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the cost of the increased fleet size, rising fuel costs and wage increases.
Generation and Marketing
2008 Compared to 2007
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from our Generation and Marketing segment decreased from $67 million in 2007 to $65 million in 2008 primarily due to the sale in 2007 of our equity investment in Sweeny and related contracts which resulted in $37 million of after-tax income offset by higher gross margins from marketing activities and improved plant performance and hedging activities from our share of the Oklaunion Power Station.
2007 Compared to 2006
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from our Generation and Marketing segment increased from $12 million in 2006 to $67 million in 2007.  The increase primarily relates to the sale in 2007 of our equity investment in Sweeny and related contracts which resulted in income.  Revenues increased primarily due to certain existing ERCOT energy contracts, which were transferred from our Utility Operations segment on January 1, 2007, and favorable marketing contracts with municipalities and cooperatives in ERCOT.  The increase in revenues was partially offset by increased purchased power and operating expenses.
All Other
2008 Compared to 2007
Income Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from All Other increased to $133 million in 2008 from a $15 million loss in 2007.  In 2008, we had after-tax income of $164 million from a litigation settlement of a purchase power and sale agreement with TEM.  The settlement was recorded as a pretax credit to Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges of $255 million in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
2007 Compared to 2006
Loss Before Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Loss from All Other decreased from $128 million in 2006 to $15 million in 2007.  The decrease in the loss primarily relates to a $136 million after-tax impairment of the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility in 2006 offset by an increase in interest expense of $45 million related to the Bank of America and HPL cushion gas dispute and lower income from the sale of investment securities in 2007.
AEP System Income Taxes
2008 Compared to 2007
Income Tax Expense increased $126 million between 2007 and 2008 primarily due to an increase in pretax book income.
2007 Compared to 2006
Income Tax Expense increased $31 million between 2006 and 2007 primarily due to an increase in pretax book income, partially offset by recording federal and state income tax adjustments related to recent audit settlements reached with the IRS and other taxing jurisdictions.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
We measure our financial condition by the strength of our balance sheet and the liquidity provided by our cash flows.  During 2008, we maintained our strong financial condition as reflected by our issuance of $2.8 billion of long-term debt primarily to fund our construction program, refinance auction-rate debt and retire debt maturities.
Debt and Equity Capitalization
Our ratio of debt to total capital increased from 60.7% to 62.5% in 2008 due to our issuance of debt to fund construction and our strategy to deal with the credit situation by drawing $2 billion from our credit facilities.
Liquidity
Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining our financial stability.  We are committed to maintaining adequate liquidity.  We generally use short-term borrowings to fund working capital needs, property acquisitions and construction until long-term funding is arranged.  Sources of long-term funding include long-term debt, sale-leaseback or leasing agreements and common stock.
Capital Markets
In 2008, the domestic and world economies experienced significant slowdowns.  Concurrently, the financial markets have become increasingly unstable and constrained at both a global and domestic level.  This systemic marketplace distress is impacting our access to capital, liquidity and cost of capital.  The uncertainties in the capital markets could have significant implications since we rely on continuing access to capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.
We believe we have adequate liquidity through 2009 under our existing credit facilities.  However, the current credit markets are constraining our ability to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and refinance existing debt.  Approximately $300 million (excluding payments due for securitization bonds which we recover from ratepayers) of our $16 billion of long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 will mature in 2009.  We intend to refinance these maturities.  To support our operations, we have $3.9 billion in aggregate credit facility commitments.  These commitments include 27 different banks with no one bank having more than 10% of our total bank commitments.  In 2008, we borrowed $2 billion under our credit agreements during this period of market disruptions and renewed our sale of receivables agreement with a $700 million commitment.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, we issued new debt including $129 million of pollution control bonds at 7.125% and an $85 million 3-year variable term loan at 3.2% as of December 31, 2008.  In 2009, I&M issued $475 million of 7% senior notes due 2019 and PSO issued $34 million of 5.25% Pollution Control Bonds due 2014.  However, our ability to issue debt continues to be constrained as a result of current market conditions.
We cannot predict the length of time the current credit situation will continue or its impact on future operations and our ability to issue debt at reasonable interest rates.  When market conditions improve, we plan to repay a portion of the amounts drawn under the credit facilities and issue commercial paper and long-term debt.  If there is not an improvement in access to capital, we believe that we have adequate liquidity to support our planned business operations and construction program through 2009.
In the first quarter of 2008, bond insurers exposure in connection with developments in the subprime credit market resulted in increasing occurrences of failed auctions for tax-exempt long-term debt sold at auction rates.  Consequently, we chose to exit the auction-rate debt market and reduced our outstanding auction-rate securities from the December 2007 balance by $1.2 billion.  As of December 31, 2008, $272 million of our auction-rate tax-exempt long-term debt (rates range between 2.034% and 13%) remained outstanding with rates reset every 35 days.  The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow us to convert to other short-term variable-rate structures, term-put structures and fixed-rate structures.
As of December 31, 2008, approximately $218 million of the $272 million of outstanding auction-rate debt relates to a lease structure with JMG that we are unable to refinance without JMGs consent.  The rates for this debt range from 6.388% to 13%.  The initial term for the JMG lease structure matures on March 31, 2010.  We are evaluating whether to terminate this facility prior to maturity.  Termination of this facility requires approval from the PUCO.
Credit Facilities
We manage our liquidity by maintaining adequate external financing commitments.  At December 31, 2008, our available liquidity was approximately $1.9 billion as illustrated in the table below:
The revolving credit facilities for commercial paper backup were structured as two $1.5 billion credit facilities which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $46 million following its bankruptcy.  In March 2008, the credit facilities were amended so that $750 million may be issued under each credit facility as letters of credit.
We use our corporate borrowing program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of our subsidiaries.  The corporate borrowing program includes a Utility Money Pool, which funds the utility subsidiaries, and a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds the majority of the nonutility subsidiaries.  In addition, we also fund, as direct borrowers, the short-term debt requirements of other subsidiaries that are not participants in either money pool for regulatory or operational reasons.  As of December 31, 2008, we had credit facilities totaling $3 billion to support our commercial paper program.  In 2008, we borrowed $2 billion under these credit facilities at a LIBOR rate.  The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during 2008 was $1.2 billion.  The weighted-average interest rate for our commercial paper during 2008 was 3.32%.  No commercial paper was outstanding at December 31, 2008 due to market conditions.
In April 2008, we entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  Under the facilities, we may issue letters of credit.  As of December 31, 2008, $372 million of letters of credit were issued under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate Pollution Control Bonds.
Sale of Receivables
In 2008, we renewed our sale of receivables agreement through October 2009.  The sale of receivables agreement provides a commitment of $700 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables.  We intend to extend or replace the sale of receivables agreement at maturity.
Master Lease Agreements
During 2008, GE Capital Commercial Inc. (GE) notified us that they terminated our Master Leasing Agreements.  In 2010 and 2011, we will be required to purchase all equipment under the terminated leases and pay GE an amount equal to the unamortized value of all equipment then leased.  We expect to enter into replacement leasing arrangements for new equipment by the end of 2009 and for the equipment affected by the termination prior to their repayment due dates in 2010 and 2011.
In December 2008, we signed two new master lease agreements with The Huntington National Bank and RBS Asset Finance, Inc. for one-year commitment periods.  The new agreements allow lease terms up to 10 years with variable and fixed rate options.  The initial rates for issuances under the new leases were approximately 4% fixed and 3% variable.  Management believes that these leasing agreements are adequate for our 2009 leased property acquisitions.
Investments in Auction-Rate Securities
Prior to June 30, 2008, we sold all of our investment in auction-rate securities at par.
Debt Covenants and Borrowing Limitations
Our revolving credit agreements contain certain covenants and require us to maintain our percentage of debt to total capitalization at a level that does not exceed 67.5%.  The method for calculating our outstanding debt and other capital is contractually defined in our revolving credit agreements.  At December 31, 2008, this contractually-defined percentage was 58.1%.  Nonperformance of these covenants could result in an event of default under these credit agreements.  In addition, the acceleration of certain of our subsidiaries or our payment obligations prior to maturity under any other agreement or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million would cause an event of default under these credit agreements and permit the lenders to declare the outstanding amounts payable.  At December 31, 2008, we complied with all of the covenants contained in these credit agreements.
The revolving credit facilities do not permit the lenders to refuse a draw on any facility if a material adverse change occurs.
Utility Money Pool borrowings and external borrowings may not exceed amounts authorized by regulatory orders.  At December 31, 2008, we had not exceeded those authorized limits.
Dividend Policy and Restrictions
We have declared common stock dividends payable in cash in each quarter since July 1910, representing 395 consecutive quarters.  The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.41 per share in January 2009.  Future dividends may vary depending upon our profit levels, operating cash flows and capital requirements, as well as financial and other business conditions existing at the time.  We have the option to defer interest payments on $315 million of our Junior Subordinated Debentures for one or more periods of up to 10 consecutive years per period.  During any period in which we defer interest payments, we may not declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, repurchase or acquire, our common stock.  We believe that these restrictions will not have a material effect on our cash flows, financial condition or limit any dividend payments in the foreseeable future.
Credit Ratings
Our current credit ratings are as follows:
In 2009, Moodys:
If we receive a downgrade in our credit ratings by one of the rating agencies listed above, our borrowing costs could increase and access to borrowed funds could be negatively affected.
Cash Flow
Managing our cash flows is a major factor in maintaining our liquidity strength.
Cash from operations, combined with a bank-sponsored receivables purchase agreement and short-term borrowings, provides working capital and allows us to meet other short-term cash needs.
Operating Activities
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $2.6 billion in 2008 consisting primarily of Income Before Discontinued Operations of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion of noncash Depreciation and Amortization.  Other represents items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities. Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities increased in 2008 due to the TEM settlement.  Under-recovered fuel costs and fuel, material and supplies inventories increased working capital requirements due to the higher cost of coal and natural gas.  Deferred Income Taxes increased primarily due to the enactment of the Economic Stimulus Act which enhanced expensing provisions for certain assets placed in service in 2008 and provided for a 50% bonus depreciation provision for certain assets placed in service in 2008.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $2.4 billion in 2007 consisting primarily of Income Before Discontinued Operations of $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion of noncash Depreciation and Amortization.  Other represents items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  Significant changes in other items resulted in lower cash from operations due to increased accounts receivable of $113 million for new contracts in the generation and marketing segment and increased utility segment receivables and the CTC refunds in Texas.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were approximately $2.7 billion in 2006 consisting primarily of Income Before Discontinued Operations of $1.0 billion and $1.5 billion of noncash Depreciation and Amortization.  Under-recovered fuel costs decreased due to recoveries under proceedings we initiated in Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia and Arkansas during 2005.  The Other category represents items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.
Investing Activities
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities were $4 billion in 2008 primarily due to Construction Expenditures for distribution, environmental and new generation investment.
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities were $3.9 billion in 2007 primarily due to Construction Expenditures for our environmental, distribution and new generation investment plan and purchases of gas-fired generating units.
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities were $3.7 billion in 2006 primarily due to Construction Expenditures for our environmental investment plan.
We forecast approximately $2.6 billion of construction expenditures for 2009.  Estimated construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital.  These construction expenditures will be funded through net income and financing activities.
Financing Activities
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $1.7 billion in 2008 primarily due to the borrowing under our credit facility to provide liquidity in the current credit market.  We paid common stock dividends of $666 million.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $1.4 billion in 2007 primarily from issuance of debt to fund our construction program.  We paid common stock dividends of $636 million.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $910 million in 2006 primarily from issuance of the Texas Securitization Bonds.  We paid common stock dividends of $597 million and issued and retired debt securities.
 
The following financing activities occurred during 2008:
AEP Common Stock:
Debt:
In 2009:
Off-balance Sheet Arrangements
Under a limited set of circumstances, we enter into off-balance sheet arrangements for various reasons including accelerating cash collections, reducing operational expenses and spreading risk of loss to third parties.  Our current guidelines restrict the use of off-balance sheet financing entities or structures to traditional operating lease arrangements and sales of customer accounts receivable that we enter in the normal course of business.  The following identifies significant off-balance sheet arrangements:
AEP Credit
AEP Credit has a sale of receivables agreement with banks and commercial paper conduits. Under the sale of receivables agreement, AEP Credit sells an interest in a portion of the receivables it acquires from affiliated utilities to the commercial paper conduits and banks and receives cash.  We have no ownership interest in the commercial paper conduits and, in accordance with GAAP, are not required to consolidate these entities.  AEP Credit continues to service the receivables.  This off-balance sheet transaction was entered to allow AEP Credit to repay its outstanding debt obligations, continue to purchase our operating companies receivables and accelerate cash collections.
AEP Credits sale of receivables agreement expires in October 2009.  We intend to extend or replace the sale of receivables agreement.  The sale of receivables agreement provides commitments of $700 million to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  At December 31, 2008, $650 million of commitments to purchase accounts receivable were outstanding under the receivables agreement.  For the remaining receivables left unsold to the commercial paper conduits and banks, AEP Credit maintains an interest in the receivables and this interest is pledged as collateral for the collection of receivables sold.  The fair value of the retained interest is based on book value due to the short-term nature of the accounts receivables less an allowance for anticipated uncollectible accounts.
Rockport Plant Unit 2
AEGCo and I&M entered into a sale and leaseback transaction in 1989 with Wilmington Trust Company (Owner Trustee), an unrelated unconsolidated trustee for Rockport Plant Unit 2 (the Plant).  The Owner Trustee was capitalized with equity from six owner participants with no relationship to AEP or any of its subsidiaries and debt from a syndicate of banks and certain institutional investors.  The future minimum lease payments for each company are $1 billion as of December 31, 2008.
The gain from the sale was deferred and is being amortized over the term of the lease, which expires in 2022.  The Owner Trustee owns the Plant and leases it to AEGCo and I&M.  Our subsidiaries account for the lease as an operating lease with the future payment obligations included in Note 13.  The lease term is for 33 years with potential renewal options.  At the end of the lease term, AEGCo and I&M have the option to renew the lease or the Owner Trustee can sell the Plant.  We, as well as our subsidiaries, have no ownership interest in the Owner Trustee and do not guarantee its debt.
Railcars
In June 2003, we entered into an agreement with BTM Capital Corporation, as lessor, to lease 875 coal-transporting aluminum railcars.  The initial lease term was five years with three, consecutive five-year renewal periods for a maximum lease term of twenty years.  We intend to maintain the lease for the full lease term of twenty years, via the renewal options.  The lease is accounted for as an operating lease.  The future minimum lease obligation is $43 million for the remaining railcars as of December 31, 2008.  Under a return-and-sale option, the lessor is guaranteed that the sale proceeds will equal at least a specified lessee obligation amount which declines with each five year renewal.  At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential loss was approximately $25 million ($17 million, net of tax) assuming the fair market value of the equipment is zero at the end of the current five-year lease term.  However, we believe that the fair market value would produce a sufficient sales price to avoid any loss.  We have other railcar lease arrangements that do not utilize this type of financing structure.
Summary Obligation Information
Our contractual cash obligations include amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and other obligations disclosed in our footnotes.  The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2008:
Our FIN 48 liabilities of $87 million are not included above because we cannot reasonably estimate the cash flows by period.
Our minimum pension funding requirements are not included in the above table.  As of December 31, 2008, the decline in pension asset values will not require us to make a contribution in 2009.  We currently estimate that we will need to make minimum contributions to our pension plan of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011.  However, estimates may vary significantly based on market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the contractual cash obligations table above, we make additional commitments in the normal course of business.  These commitments include standby letters of credit, guarantees for the payment of obligation performance bonds and other commitments.  At December 31, 2008, our commitments outstanding under these agreements are summarized in the table below:
JOINT VENTURE INITIATIVES
AEP is currently participating in the following transmission initiatives:
Electric Transmission Texas, LLC (Utility Operations Segment)
In December 2007, we received approval from the PUCT to establish Electric Transmission Texas, LLC (ETT), as a joint venture company to fund, own and operate electric transmission assets in ERCOT.  We do not consolidate ETT for financial reporting purposes.  Our equity investment in ETT is included in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We provide services to ETT through service agreements.  ETT plans to invest in additional transmission projects in ERCOT over the next several years.
In September 2008, ETT and a group of other Texas transmission providers filed a comprehensive plan with the PUCT for completion of the Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ) initiative.  The CREZ initiative is the development of 2,400 miles of new transmission lines to transport electricity from 18,000 megawatts of planned wind farm capacity in west Texas to rapidly growing cities in eastern Texas.  In January 2009, the PUCT announced its decision to authorize ETT to construct CREZ related projects.  ETT has estimated that the PUCTs decision authorizes ETT to construct $750 million to $850 million of new transmission assets.  This estimated amount is included in ETTs current $1.3 billion of projected transmission project costs.
In October 2008, the Travis County District Court ruled that the PUCT exceeded its authority by approving ETTs application as a stand alone transmission utility without a service area under the wrong section of the statute.  Management believes the ruling is incorrect.  See ETT section of Note 4.  Management cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.
Electric Transmission
America
, LLC (Utilities Operations Segment)
In September 2007, we and MEHC formed Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) to pursue transmission opportunities located in North America, outside of ERCOT.  We hold a 50% equity ownership interest in ETA.  We do not consolidate ETA for financial reporting purposes.  Our equity investment in ETA is included in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline (Utility Operations Segment)
In September 2007, we and Allegheny Energy Inc. (AYE) formed a joint venture by creating Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline, LLC and its subsidiaries (PATH).  The PATH subsidiaries will operate as transmission utilities owning certain electric transmission assets within PJM.   We will equally share the ownership and management of the West Virginia facilities (PATH-WV) and the Ohio facilities (PATH-OH) within PATH with AYE; other facilities within PATH are owned 100% by AYE.  We do not consolidate PATH-WV for financial reporting purposes.  Our equity investment in PATH-WV is included in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We and AYE provide services to the PATH companies through service agreements.
In December 2007, PATH-WV filed an application with the FERC for approval of a transmission formula rate to recover its cost of providing transmission service, including costs incurred prior to the formula rates going into effect.  PATH-WV requested an incentive return on equity of 14.3% and the inclusion of CWIP in rate base.  In February 2008, the FERC approved PATH-WVs request except for the cost of service formula and formula rate implementation protocols and ordered that the formula rates be implemented March 1, 2008, subject to true-up.  Motions for rehearing were filed by intervening parties in March 2008.  Management cannot predict the outcome of these motions.
SIGNIFICANT FACTORS
Ohio Electric Security Plan Filings
In April 2008, the Ohio legislature passed Senate Bill 221, which amended the restructuring law effective July 31, 2008 and required electric utilities to adjust their rates by filing an Electric Security Plan (ESP).  Electric utilities could include a fuel cost recovery mechanism (FCR) in their ESP filing.  Electric utilities also had an option to file a Market Rate Offer (MRO) for generation pricing.  An MRO, from the date of its commencement, would have transitioned CSPCo and OPCo to full market rates no sooner than six years and no later than ten years after the PUCO approves an MRO.  The PUCO has the authority to approve and/or modify each utilitys ESP request.  The PUCO is required to approve an ESP if, in the aggregate, the ESP is more favorable to ratepayers than an MRO.  Both alternatives involve a significantly excessive earnings (SEET) test based on what public companies, including other utilities with similar risk profiles, earn on equity.
In July 2008, within the parameters of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to establish rates for 2009 through 2011.  CSPCo and OPCo did not file an optional MRO.  CSPCos and OPCos ESP filings requested an annual rate increase for 2009 through 2011 that would not exceed approximately 15% per year.  A significant portion of the requested ESP increases resulted from the implementation of a FCR that primarily includes fuel costs, purchased power costs, consumables such as urea, other variable production costs and gains and losses on sales of emission allowances.  The FCR is proposed to be phased into customer bills over the three-year period from 2009 through 2011 and recovered with a weighted average cost of capital carrying cost deferral over seven years from 2012 through 2018.  If the ESPs are approved as filed, effective with the implementation of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer fuel cost over/under-recoveries and related carrying costs, including amounts unrecovered through the phase in period, for future recovery.
In addition to the FCR, the requested ESP increases would also recover incremental carrying costs associated with environmental costs, Provider of Last Resort (POLR) charges to compensate for the risk of customers changing electric suppliers, automatic increases for distribution reliability costs and for unexpected non-fuel generation costs.  The filings also include recovery for programs for smart metering initiatives, economic development, mandated energy efficiency, renewable resources and peak demand reduction programs.
Within the ESP requests, CSPCo and OPCo would also recover existing regulatory assets of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for customer choice implementation and line extension carrying costs incurred through December 2008.  In addition, CSPCo and OPCo would recover related unrecorded equity carrying costs of $31 million and $23 million, respectively, through December 2008.  The PUCO had previously issued orders allowing deferral of these costs.  Such costs would be recovered over an 8-year period beginning January 2011.  If the PUCO does not approve recovery of these regulatory assets in this or some future proceeding, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Hearings were held in November and December 2008.  Many intervenors filed opposing testimony.  CSPCo and OPCo requested retroactive application of the new rates, including the FCR, back to the start of the January 2009 billing cycle upon approval of the ESPs.  The RSP rates were effective for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 under which CSPCo and OPCo had three annual generation rate increases of 3% and 7%, respectively.  The RSP also allowed additional annual generation rate increases of up to an average of 4% per year to recover new governmentally-mandated costs.  In January 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application requesting the PUCO to authorize deferred fuel accounting beginning January 1, 2009.  A motion to dismiss the application has been filed by Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, while the Ohio Consumers Counsel has filed comments opposing the application.  The PUCO ordered that CSPCo and OPCo continue using their current RSP rates until the PUCO issues a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the March 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  Management is unable to predict the financial statement impact of the restructuring legislation until the PUCO acts on specific proposals made by CSPCo and OPCo in their ESPs.  CSPCo and OPCo anticipate a final order from the PUCO during the first quarter of 2009.
Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown
In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and are within the vendors warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  I&M is working with its insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), and its turbine vendor, Siemens, to evaluate the extent of the damage resulting from the incident and the costs to return the unit to service.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $330 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendors warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  Our current analysis indicates that with successful repairs and timely parts deliveries, Unit 1 could resume operations as early as September 2009 at reduced power.  If the rotors cannot be repaired, replacement of parts will extend the outage into 2010.
I&M maintains property insurance through NEIL with a $1 million deductible.  I&M also maintains a separate accidental outage policy with NEIL whereby, after a 12-week deductible period, I&M is entitled to weekly payments of $3.5 million for the first 52 weeks following the deductible period.  After the initial 52 weeks of indemnity, the policy pays $2.8 million per week for up to an additional 110 weeks.  In January 2009, I&M filed to provide to customers a portion of the accidental outage insurance proceeds expected during the fuel cost forecast period of April through September 2009.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if the unit is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
Texas Restructuring Appeals
Pursuant to PUCT orders, TCC securitized its net recoverable stranded generation costs of $2.5 billion and is recovering the principal and interest on the securitization bonds through the end of 2020.  TCC refunded its net other true-up regulatory liabilities of $375 million from October 2006 through June 2008 via a CTC credit rate rider.  Although earnings were not affected by this CTC refund, cash flow was adversely impacted for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by $75 million, $238 million and $69 million, respectively.  TCC appealed the PUCT stranded costs true-up and related orders seeking relief in both state and federal court on the grounds that certain aspects of the orders are contrary to the Texas Restructuring Legislation, PUCT rulemakings and federal law and fail to fully compensate TCC for its net stranded cost and other true-up items.  Municipal customers and other intervenors also appealed the PUCT true-up orders seeking to further reduce TCCs true-up recoveries.
In March 2007, the Texas District Court judge hearing the appeals of the true-up order affirmed the PUCTs April 2006 final true-up order for TCC with two significant exceptions.  The judge determined that the PUCT erred by applying an invalid rule to determine the carrying cost rate for the true-up of stranded costs and remanded this matter to the PUCT for further consideration.  The District Court judge also determined that the PUCT improperly reduced TCCs net stranded plant costs for commercial unreasonableness.
TCC, the PUCT and intervenors appealed the District Court decision to the Texas Court of Appeals.  In May 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court decision in all but two major respects.  It reversed the District Courts unfavorable decision which found that the PUCT erred by applying an invalid rule to determine the carrying cost rate.  It also determined that the PUCT erred by not reducing stranded costs by the excess earnings that had already been refunded to affiliated retail electric providers.  Management does not believe that TCC will be adversely affected by the Court of Appeals ruling on excess earning based upon the reasons discussed in the TCC Excess Earnings section within Texas Rate Matters.  The favorable commercial unreasonableness judgment entered by the District Court was not reversed.  The Texas Court of Appeals denied intervenors motion for rehearing.  In May 2008, TCC, the PUCT and intervenors filed petitions for review with the Texas Supreme Court.  Review is discretionary and the Texas Supreme Court has not determined if it will grant review.
TNC received its final true-up order in May 2005 that resulted in refunds via a CTC which have been completed.  Appeals brought by intervenors and TNC of the final true-up order remain pending in state court.
Management cannot predict the outcome of these court proceedings and PUCT remand decisions.  If TCC and/or TNC ultimately succeed in its appeals, it could have a material favorable effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.  If municipal customers and other intervenors succeed in their appeals, it could have a substantial adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
New Generation
In 2008, AEP completed or is in various stages of construction of the following generation facilities:
Turk Plant
In November 2007, the APSC granted approval to build the Turk Plant.  Certain landowners filed a notice of appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals.  In March 2008, the LPSC approved the application to construct the Turk Plant.
In August 2008, the PUCT issued an order approving the Turk Plant with the following four conditions: (a) the capping of capital costs for the Turk Plant at the previously estimated $1.522 billion projected construction cost, excluding AFUDC, (b) capping CO emission costs at $28 per ton through the year 2030, (c) holding Texas ratepayers financially harmless from any adverse impact related to the Turk Plant not being fully subscribed to by other utilities or wholesale customers and (d) providing the PUCT all updates, studies, reviews, reports and analyses as previously required under the Louisiana and Arkansas orders.  In October 2008, SWEPCo appealed the PUCTs order regarding the two cost cap restrictions.  If the cost cap restrictions are upheld and construction or emissions costs exceed the restrictions, it could have a material adverse impact on future net income and cash flows.  In October 2008, an intervenor filed an appeal contending that the PUCTs grant of a conditional Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the Turk Plant was not necessary to serve retail customers.
2
A request to stop pre-construction activities at the site was filed in federal court by Arkansas landowners.  In July 2008, the federal court denied the request and the Arkansas landowners appealed the denial to the U.S. Court of Appeals.
In November 2008, SWEPCo received the air permit approval from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality and commenced construction.  In December 2008, Arkansas landowners filed an appeal with the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission (APCEC) which caused construction of the Turk Plant to halt until the APCEC took further action.  In December 2008, SWEPCo filed a request with the APCEC to continue construction of the Turk Plant and the APCEC ruled to allow construction to continue while an appeal of the Turk Plants permit is heard.  SWEPCo is also working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the approval of a wetlands and stream impact permit.
In January 2008 and July 2008, SWEPCo filed Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need (CECPN) applications with the APSC to construct transmission lines necessary for service from the Turk Plant.  Several landowners filed for intervention status and one landowner also contended he should be permitted to re-litigate Turk Plant issues, including the need for the generation.  The APSC granted their intervention but denied the request to re-litigate the Turk Plant issues.  In June 2008, the landowner filed an appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals requesting to re-litigate Turk Plant issues.  SWEPCo responded and the appeal was dismissed.  In January 2009, the APSC approved the CECPN applications.
The Arkansas Governors Commission on Global Warming issued its final report to the Governor in October 2008.  The Commission was established to set a global warming pollution reduction goal together with a strategic plan for implementation in Arkansas.  The Commissions final report included a recommendation that the Turk Plant employ post combustion carbon capture and storage measures as soon as it starts operating.  If legislation is passed as a result of the findings in the Commissions report, it could impact SWEPCos proposal to build the Turk Plant.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Turk Plant, SWEPCo could incur significant cancellation fees to terminate its commitments and would be responsible to reimburse OMPA, AECC and ETEC for their share of paid costs.  If that occurred, SWEPCo would seek recovery of its capitalized costs including any cancellation fees and joint owner reimbursements.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized approximately $510 million of expenditures (including AFUDC) and has significant contractual construction commitments for an additional $727 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, SWEPCo would have incurred cancellation fees of $61 million.  If the Turk Plant does not receive all necessary approvals on reasonable terms and SWEPCo cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
IGCC Plants
The construction of the West Virginia and Ohio IGCC plants are pending regulatory approvals.  In April 2008, the Virginia SCC issued an order denying APCos request to recover initial costs associated with a proposed IGCC plant in West Virginia.  In July 2008, the WVPSC issued a notice seeking comments from parties on how the WVPSC should proceed regarding its earlier approval of the IGCC plant.  Comments were filed by various parties, including APCo, but the WVPSC has not taken any action.  In July 2008, the IRS allocated $134 million in future tax credits to APCo for the planned IGCC plant contingent upon the commencement of construction, qualifying expenses being incurred and certification of the IGCC plant prior to July 2010.  Through December 31, 2008, APCo deferred for future recovery preconstruction IGCC costs of $20 million.  If the West Virginia IGCC plant is cancelled, APCo plans to seek recovery of its prudently incurred deferred pre-construction costs.  If the plant is cancelled and if the deferred costs are not recoverable, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
In Ohio, neither CSPCo nor OPCo are engaged in a continuous course of construction on the IGCC plant.  However, CSPCo and OPCo continue to pursue the ultimate construction of the IGCC plant.  In September 2008, the Ohio Consumers Counsel filed a motion with the PUCO requesting all Phase 1 cost recoveries be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest.  CSPCo and OPCo filed a response with the PUCO that argued the Ohio Consumers Counsels motion was without legal merit and contrary to past precedent.  If CSPCo and OPCo were required to refund some or all of the $24 million collected for IGCC pre-construction costs and those costs were not recoverable in another jurisdiction in connection with the construction of an IGCC plant, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans
We maintain qualified, defined benefit pension plans (Qualified Plans), which cover a substantial majority of nonunion and certain union employees, and unfunded, nonqualified supplemental plans to provide benefits in excess of amounts permitted under the provisions of the tax law to be paid to participants in the Qualified Plans (collectively the Pension Plans).  We merged the Qualified Plans at December 31, 2008.  Additionally, we entered into individual retirement agreements with certain current and retired executives that provide additional retirement benefits as a part of the nonqualified, supplemental plans.  We also sponsor other postretirement benefit plans to provide medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees (Postretirement Plans).  The Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans are collectively the Plans.
The following table shows the net periodic cost and assumed rate of return on the Plans assets:
The net periodic benefit cost is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates on return on the Plans assets.  In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption for 2009, we evaluated input from actuaries and investment consultants, including their reviews of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions.  We also considered historical returns of the investment markets as well as our ten-year average return, for the period ended December 2008, of approximately 3%.  We anticipate that the investment managers we employ for the Plans will generate future returns averaging 8.00% for the Pension Plan and 7.75% for the Postretirement Plans.
The expected long-term rate of return on the Plans assets is based on our targeted asset allocation and our expected investment returns for each investment category.  The investment returns for the Postretirement Plans are assumed to be slightly less than those of the Pension Plans as a portion of the returns for the Postretirement Plans is taxable.  Our assumptions are summarized in the following table:
Global capital markets experienced extreme volatility in 2008.  The value of investments in our pension and OPEB trusts declined substantially due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are lower, this decline has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.
We regularly review the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to our targeted allocation.  We believe that 8% for the Pension Plans and 7.75% for the Postretirement Plans are reasonable long-term rates of return on the Plans assets despite the recent market volatility.  The Pension Plans assets had an actual (loss) gain of (24.1)% and 9.2% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.    The Postretirement Plans assets had an actual (loss) gain of (24.7)% and 8.6% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  We will continue to evaluate the actuarial assumptions, including the expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust the assumptions as necessary.
We base our determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets.  Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded.  As of December 31, 2008, we had cumulative losses of approximately $1 billion that remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets.  These unrecognized net actuarial losses will result in increases in the future pension costs depending on several factors, including whether such losses at each measurement date exceed the corridor in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions.
The method used to determine the discount rate that we utilize for determining future obligations is a duration-based method in which a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds similar to those included in the Moodys Aa bond index was constructed but with a duration matching the benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio was used as the discount rate for the plan.  The discount rate at December 31, 2008 under this method was 6.00% for the Pension Plans and 6.10% for the Postretirement Plans.  Due to the effect of the unrecognized actuarial losses and based on an expected rate of return on the Pension Plans assets of 8.00%, a discount rate of 6.00% and various other assumptions, we estimate that the pension costs for all pension plans will approximate $92 million, $145 million and $152 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  Based on an expected rate of return on the OPEB plans assets of 7.75%, a discount rate of 6.10% and various other assumptions, we estimate Postretirement Plan costs will approximate $148 million, $140 million and $121 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  Future actual cost will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Plans.  The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results.  The effects of a 50 basis point change to selective actuarial assumptions are included in Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits within the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this Managements Financial Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations.
The value of the Pension Plans assets decreased substantially to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008 from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2007 primarily due to investment losses.  The Qualified Plans paid $289 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008 (nonqualified plans paid $7 million in benefits).  The value of our Postretirement Plans assets decreased substantially to $1 billion at December 31, 2008 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007 primarily due to investment losses.  The Postretirement Plans paid $120 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008.
Investments in trusts are stated at fair market value.  We utilize our trustees external pricing service to measure the market value of the underlying investments.  Our investment managers review and validate the prices utilized to determine fair market value.  We also perform our own valuation testing to validate the market values of the actively traded securities.  We receive audit reports of our trustees operating controls and valuation processes.  Where possible, quoted prices on actively traded exchanges are used to determine value.  Debt holdings that are not actively traded may be valued based on the observable pricing of comparable securities.  Investments in commingled funds are generally not actively traded and are priced at a Net Asset Value (NAV) which is based on the underlying holdings of the funds.  These holdings are typically actively traded equities or debt securities that may be valued in a manner similar to direct debt investments.  Trust assets as of December 31, 2008 include approximately $244 million of real estate and private equity investments in the pension fund that are valued based on methods requiring judgment.
Our Qualified Plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2008.  No contribution to the Qualified Plans is required under ERISA in 2009.  Minimum contributions to the Qualified Plans of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011 are currently projected under ERISA and may vary significantly based on future market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.  Our nonqualified pension plans are unfunded, and are therefore considered underfunded for accounting purposes.  For the nonqualified pension plans, the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded plan assets by $80 million and $77 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Certain pension plans we sponsor contain a cash balance benefit feature.  In 2008, the IRS issued Determination Letters confirming the tax exempt status of these plans including the cash balance benefit feature.
The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 did not materially impact our plans.
Nuclear Trust Funds
Nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel trust funds represent funds that regulatory commissions allow us to collect through rates to fund future decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal liabilities.  By rules or orders, the IURC, the MPSC and the FERC established investment limitations and general risk management guidelines.
We maintain trust funds for each regulatory jurisdiction.  These funds are managed by external investment managers who must comply with the guidelines and rules of the applicable regulatory authorities.  The trust assets are invested to optimize the net of tax earnings of the trust giving consideration to liquidity, risk, diversification, and other prudent investment objectives.  We record securities held in these trust funds as Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We record these securities at market value.  We utilize our trustees external pricing service to measure the market value of the underlying investments held in these trusts.  Our investment managers review and validate the prices utilized to determine fair market value.  We also perform our own valuation testing to validate the market values of the actively traded securities.  We receive audit reports of our trustees operating controls and valuation processes.
Litigation
In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in employment, commercial, environmental and regulatory litigation.  Since it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, we cannot state what their eventual outcome will be, or what the timing of the amount of any loss, fine or penalty may be.  We assess the probability of loss for each contingency and accrue a liability for cases that have a probable likelihood of loss if the loss can be estimated.  For details on our regulatory proceedings and pending litigation see Note 4  Rate Matters and Note 6  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.  Adverse results in these proceedings have the potential to materially affect our net income.
Environmental Litigation
  The Federal EPA, a number of states and certain special interest groups filed complaints alleging that APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo modified certain units at their coal-fired generating plants in violation of the NSR requirements of the CAA.  In 2007, we settled this litigation by a consent decree with the Federal EPA, the DOJ, the states and the special interest groups.  Under the consent decree, we agreed to annual SO and NO emission caps for sixteen coal-fired power plants located in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia.  We agreed to install FGD equipment at Big Sandy and at Muskingum River Plants no later than the end of 2015 and SCR and FGD emissions control equipment at Rockport Plant no later than the end of 2017 and 2019 for Unit 1 and Unit 2, respectively.  We also agreed to install selective non-catalytic reduction, a NO-reduction technology, at Clinch River Plant in 2009.
New Source Review (NSR) Litigation:
2
x
x
CSPCo jointly-owns Beckjord and Stuart Stations with Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. and Dayton Power and Light Company.  A jury trial returned a verdict of no liability at the jointly-owned Beckjord unit.  In December 2008, however, the court ordered a new trial in the Beckjord case.  In October 2008, the court approved a settlement in a citizen suit action filed by Sierra Club against the jointly-owned units at Stuart Station.  Under the settlement, the joint-owners of Stuart Station agreed to certain emission targets related to NO, SO and PM.  The joint-owners also agreed to make energy efficiency and renewable energy commitments that are conditioned on PUCO approval for recovery of costs.  The joint-owners also agreed to forfeit 5,500 SO allowances and provide $300 thousand to a third party organization to establish a solar water heater rebate program.
x
2
2
Environmental Matters
We are implementing a substantial capital investment program and incurring additional operational costs to comply with environmental control requirements.  The sources of these requirements include:
In addition, we are engaged in litigation with respect to certain environmental matters, have been notified of potential responsibility for the clean-up of contaminated sites and incur costs for disposal of SNF and future decommissioning of our nuclear units.  We are also engaged in the development of possible future requirements to reduce CO and other greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions to address concerns about global climate change.  All of these matters are discussed below.
2
Clean Air Act Requirements
The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nations air quality and control mobile and stationary sources of air emissions.  The major CAA programs affecting our power plants are described below.  The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements.
  The CAA requires the Federal EPA to periodically review the available scientific data for six criteria pollutants and establish a concentration level in the ambient air for those substances that is adequate to protect the public health and welfare with an extra safety margin.  These concentration levels are known as national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).
National Ambient Air Quality Standards:
Each state identifies those areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (nonattainment areas).  Each state must develop a state implementation plan (SIP) to bring nonattainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and maintain good air quality in attainment areas.  All SIPs are submitted to the Federal EPA for approval.  If a state fails to develop adequate plans, the Federal EPA develops and implements a plan.  In addition, as the Federal EPA reviews the NAAQS, the attainment status of areas can change, and states may be required to develop new SIPs.  In 2008, the Federal EPA issued revised NAAQS for both ozone and PM . These new standards could increase the levels of SO and NO reductions required from our facilities.  The Federal EPA also established a lower standard for lead, and conducts periodic reviews for additional criteria pollutants including SO and NO.
2.5
2
x
2
x
In 2005, the Federal EPA issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).  It requires specific reductions in SO and NO emissions from power plants and assists states developing new SIPs to meet the NAAQS.  CAIR reduces regional emissions of SO and NO (which can be transformed into PM and ozone) from power plants in the Eastern U.S. (29 states and the District of Columbia).  CAIR requires power plants within these states to reduce emissions of SO by 50% by 2010, and by 65% by 2015.  NO emissions will be subject to additional limits beginning in 2009, and will be reduced by a total of 70% from current levels by 2015.  Reductions of both SO and NO would be achieved through a cap-and-trade program.  In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision that would vacate CAIR and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA.  In September 2008, the Federal EPA and other parties petitioned for rehearing.  In December 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals granted the Federal EPAs petition and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA without vacatur, allowing CAIR to remain in effect while a new rulemaking is conducted.  We are unable to predict how the Federal EPA will respond to the remand.  States were required to develop and submit SIPs to implement CAIR by November 2006.  Nearly all of the states in which our power plants are located will be covered by CAIR and have or are developing CAIR SIPs.  Oklahoma is not affected, while Texas and Arkansas will be covered only by certain parts of CAIR.  A SIP that complies with CAIR will also establish compliance with other CAA requirements, including certain visibility goals.  The Federal EPA or states may elect to seek further reductions of SO and NO in response to more stringent PM and ozone NAAQS.
2
x
2
x
2
x
2
x
2
x
 
  As a result of the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, the Federal EPA investigated hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions from the electric utility sector and submitted a report to Congress, identifying mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants as warranting further study.  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued a Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) setting mercury standards for new coal-fired power plants and requiring all states to issue new SIPs including mercury requirements for existing coal-fired power plants.  The Federal EPA issued a model federal rule based on a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions from existing coal-fired power plants that would reduce mercury emissions to 38 tons per year from all existing plants in 2010, and to 15 tons per year in 2018.  The national cap of 38 tons per year in 2010 is intended to reflect the level of reduction in mercury emissions that will be achieved as a result of installing controls to reduce SO and NO emissions in order to comply with CAIR.  States were required to develop and submit their SIPs to implement CAMR by November 2006.
Hazardous Air Pollutants:
2
x
Various states and special interest groups challenged the rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  The court ruled that the Federal EPAs action delisting fossil fuel-fired power plants did not conform to the procedures specified in the CAA, and vacated and remanded the federal rules for both new and existing coal-fired power plants to the Federal EPA.  The Federal EPA filed a petition for review by the U.S. Supreme Court, but the new Federal EPA Administrator asked that the petition be withdrawn.  We are unable to predict the outcome of this appeal or how the Federal EPA will respond to the remand.
  The 1990 Amendments to the CAA include a cap-and-trade emission reduction program for SO emissions from power plants.  By 2000, the program established a nationwide cap on power plant SO emissions of 8.9 million tons per year.  The 1990 Amendments also contain requirements for power plants to reduce NOx emissions through the use of available combustion controls.
The Acid Rain Program:
2
2
The success of the SO cap-and-trade program encouraged the Federal EPA and the states to use it as a model for other emission reduction programs, including CAIR and CAMR.  We continue to meet our obligations under the Acid Rain Program through the installation of controls, use of alternate fuels and participation in the emissions allowance markets.  CAIR currently uses the SO allowances originally allocated through the Acid Rain Program as the basis for its SO cap-and-trade system.  We are unable to predict if or how any replacement for CAIR will utilize the SO allowances from the Acid Rain Program.
2
2
2
2
:  The CAA establishes visibility goals for certain federally designated areas, including national parks, and requires states to submit SIPs that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward preventing impairment of visibility in these areas (Regional Haze program).  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued its Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), detailing how the CAAs best available retrofit technology (BART) requirements will be applied to facilities built between 1962 and 1977 that emit more than 250 tons per year of certain pollutants in specific industrial categories, including power plants.  The final rule contains a demonstration that CAIR will result in more visibility improvements than BART for power plants subject to it.  Thus, states are allowed to substitute CAIR requirements in their Regional Haze program SIPs for controls that would otherwise be required by BART.  For BART-eligible facilities located in states (Oklahoma, Texas and Arkansas of the AEP System) not subject to CAIR requirements for SOand NO, some additional controls will be required.  The courts upheld the final rule.
Regional Haze
2
x
In January 2009, the Federal EPA issued a determination that 37 states (including Indiana, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and Virginia) failed to submit SIPs fulfilling the Regional Haze program requirements by the deadline, and commencing a 2-year period for the development of a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) in these states.  We are unable to predict if or how the remand of CAIR or the development of a FIP for certain states may affect our compliance obligations for the Regional Haze programs.
Estimated Air Quality Environmental Investments
The CAIR and the consent decree signed to settle the NSR litigation require us to make significant additional investments, some of which are estimable.  Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties, and will be affected by any changes in the outcome of several interrelated variables and assumptions, including:  the timing of implementation; required levels of reductions; methods for allocation of allowances; and our selected compliance alternatives and their costs.  In short, we cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty and the actual costs to comply could differ significantly from the estimates discussed below.
By the end of 2008, we installed SCR technology on over 11,380 MW of our eastern power plants to comply with NOemission requirements.  We comply with SO emission requirements by installing scrubbers and using alternate fuels and SO allowances.  We receive allowances through allocation and purchase at either the annual Federal EPA auction or in the market.  Decreasing allowance allocations, our diminishing SO allowance bank, increasing allowance costs, CAIR and commitments in the consent decree will require installation of additional controls on our power plants through 2019.  We plan to install additional scrubbers on 9,000 MW for SO control.  From 2009 to 2013, we estimate total environmental investment of $3.6 billion including investment in scrubbers and other SO equipment of approximately $2.6 billion.  These estimates may be revised as a result of the courts decision remanding the CAIR and CAMR.  We will also incur additional operation and maintenance expenses in future years due to the costs associated with the maintenance of additional controls, disposal of byproducts and purchase of reagents.
x
2
2
2
2
2
Due to CAIR and the NSR settlement discussed above, we expect to incur additional costs for pollution control technology retrofits between 2014 and 2020 of approximately $3.3 billion.  However, this estimate is highly uncertain due to the variability associated with: (1) the states implementation of these regulatory programs, including the potential for SIPs or FIPs that impose standards more stringent than CAIR; (2) additional rulemaking activities in response to the court decisions remanding the CAIR and CAMR; (3) the actual performance of the pollution control technologies installed on our units; (4) changes in costs for new pollution controls; (5) new generating technology developments; and (6) other factors.  Associated operational and maintenance expenses will also increase during those years.  We cannot estimate these additional operational and maintenance costs due to the uncertainties described above, but they are expected to be significant.
We will seek recovery of expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement or additional generation and associated operating costs from customers through our regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions).  We should be able to recover these expenditures through market prices in deregulated jurisdictions.  If not, those costs could adversely affect future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Clean Water Act Regulations
In 2004, the Federal EPA issued a final rule requiring all large existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems to meet certain standards to reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against the plants cooling water intake screen or entrained in the cooling water.  The standards vary based on the water bodies from which the plants draw their cooling water.  We expected additional capital and operating expenses, which the Federal EPA estimated could be $193 million for our plants.  We undertook site-specific studies and have been evaluating site-specific compliance or mitigation measures that could significantly change these cost estimates.
In July 2007, the Federal EPA suspended the 2004 rule, except for the requirement that permitting agencies develop best professional judgment (BPJ) controls for existing facility cooling water intake structures that reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact.  The result is that the BPJ control standard for cooling water intake structures in effect prior to the 2004 rule is the applicable standard for permitting agencies pending finalization of revised rules by the Federal EPA.  We cannot predict further action of the Federal EPA or what effect it may have on similar requirements adopted by the states.  We sought further review and filed for relief from the schedules included in our permits.
In April 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review decisions from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals that limit the Federal EPAs ability to weigh the retrofitting costs against environmental benefits.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this appeal.
Potential Regulation of CO and Other GHG Emissions
2
The scientific community, led largely by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has provided scientific evidence that human activity, and particularly the combustion of fossil fuels, has increased the levels of GHG in the atmosphere and contributed to observed changes in the global climate system.  These findings have led to proposals for substantial transformation of the worlds energy production and transportation systems in order to slow, and ultimately reduce, the production of CO and other GHG emissions sufficiently to reduce atmospheric concentrations.  Because approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels, we are helping to lead the discussion nationally and internationally to find a reasonable, achievable approach and enact federal energy policy that is realistic in time frame and does not seriously harm the U.S. economy.  We also are developing advanced coal technologies so that coal can continue to be the important energy resource it is today.  We support the adoption of an economy-wide, cap-and-trade GHG reduction program that allows us to provide reliable, reasonably priced electricity to our customers and that fosters the international participation that is necessary to make meaningful global progress on this global challenge.
2
At the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Kyoto, Japan in 1997, more than 160 countries, including the U.S., negotiated a treaty requiring legally-binding reductions in GHG emissions.  The U.S. signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998, but the treaty was not submitted to the Senate for its consent.  During 2004, enough countries ratified the treaty for it to become enforceable against the ratifying countries in February 2005.  The first commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol ends in 2012.  Negotiations designed to lead to a global agreement on limiting GHG emissions after the Kyoto Protocol expires have commenced, and are focused on flexible mechanisms that can address the concerns expressed by the U.S. and others regarding the global impacts of increasing emissions in developing economies, including China, Brazil, and India, and mitigating the economic impacts of GHG reductions in developed countries given current economic conditions.
Since 2005, several members of Congress have introduced bills that would regulate GHG emissions, including emissions from power plants.  Congress has passed no legislation, but recent bills have received more serious consideration and some form of national legislation impacting the electric utility industry is likely to pass within the next few years.  Such legislation is likely to take the form of direct regulation of GHG emissions through cap-and-trade provisions.  In addition and related to climate change legislation, a national renewable portfolio standard, energy efficiency requirements for electric utilities and other measures may pass Congress in the next few years.
Several states have adopted programs that directly regulate GHG emissions from power plants, but none of these programs are currently in effect in states where we have generating facilities.  Certain of our states have passed legislation establishing renewable energy, alternative energy and/or energy efficiency requirements (including Ohio, Michigan, Texas and Virginia).  We are taking steps to comply with these requirements.  Through our recent purchases of wind power and the existing wind assets that we have developed and our future plans, our integrated resource plan contains a 10% renewable energy target by 2020, which is nearly double the level of renewable energy requirements in effect in our states.  Our plans are based on the reasonable expectation that additional federal or state requirements may be enacted that will affect our system.
We support a reasonable approach to GHG emission reductions, including a mandate to achieve economy-wide reductions that recognizes a reliable and affordable electric supply is vital to economic stability.  We have taken measurable, voluntary actions to reduce and offset our own GHG emissions.  We participate in a number of voluntary programs to monitor, mitigate and reduce GHG emissions, including the Federal EPAs Climate Leaders program, the DOEs GHG reporting program and the Chicago Climate Exchange.  Through the end of 2007, we reduced our emissions by a cumulative 46 million metric tons from adjusted baseline levels in 1998-2001 as a result of these voluntary actions.  Our total GHG emissions in 2007 were 155.8 million metric tons.  We estimate that our 2008 emission will be approximately 155 million metric tons and our cumulative reductions will be in excess of 51 metric million tons.
We believe that climate change is a global issue and that the United States should assume a leadership role in developing a new international approach that will address growing emissions from all nations, including developing countries such as India and China.  We, along with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), proposed that a consistent national policy for reasonable GHG controls should include the following principles:
In July 2007, we, along with several other utilities and labor unions, including the IBEW, announced support for the Low Carbon Economy Act of 2007.  This legislation requires GHG reductions beginning in 2012 through an economy-wide cap-and-trade program.  It contemplates reducing GHG emissions to their 2006 levels by 2020, and to their 1990 levels by 2030.  Allowances to emit GHG would be allocated, auctioned or a combination of each, including a safety valve allowance price of $12 per metric ton, subject to increasing adjustments.  The legislation also includes incentives for other nations to adopt measures to limit GHG emissions.  We endorse this legislation because it sets reasonable and achievable reduction targets and includes key elements of the AEP-IBEW principles.  We also support the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) principles for federal climate change legislation, including the consensus approach developed by EEI for the allocation of emission allowances.
President Obama has stated that he favors climate legislation that would reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050 and require the auctioning of all allowances.  We oppose a 100% auction of GHG emission allowances, as it would substantially increase the costs of compliance on our system and increase customer rates.  We support reasonable emission reduction targets that allow sufficient time for technology development and recognize that commercial scale technologies to provide substantial GHG emission reductions at new or existing electric generating units are not currently available.
While comprehensive economy-wide regulation of GHG emissions might be achieved through new legislation, several states and interest groups petitioned the Federal EPA to establish GHG emission standards under the existing requirements of the CAA.  In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed and remanded the Federal EPAs determination that it lacked the authority to regulate GHG emissions from motor vehicles for purposes of climate change under the CAA.  In response to the Supreme Courts decision, the Federal EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in July 2008 seeking comment on its analysis of the available evidence to support a finding that GHG emissions endanger human health or the environment under various provisions of the CAA, and the suitability of different provisions of the mobile source, stationary source, and permitting programs under the CAA to effectively regulate GHG emissions.  We agree with the assessment of the previous EPA Administrator that the existing authorities under the CAA are not well-suited to achieving economy-wide cost-effective reductions of GHG emissions.  Shortly after taking office, President Obama directed the Federal EPA to re-examine a decision denying the request by the State of California for a waiver that would allow states to establish higher fuel efficiency standards as a means of reducing GHG emissions from mobile sources.  Thirteen states have taken action that would implement the California standards if the Federal EPA issues such a waiver.  While this waiver, if issued, would have no immediate impact on stationary sources, should the Federal EPA choose to take other actions to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA, they could have a material impact upon the costs of operating our fossil-fueled generating plants.
In addition, certain groups have filed lawsuits alleging that emissions of CO and other GHGs are a public nuisance and seeking injunctive relief and/or damages from small groups of coal-fired electricity generators, petroleum refiners and marketers, coal companies and others.  We have been named in two pending lawsuits, which we are vigorously defending.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on our operations or financial condition.  See Carbon Dioxide Public Nuisance Claims and Alaskan Villages Claims sections of Note 6.
2
We expect that GHG emissions, including those associated with the operation of our fossil-fueled generating plants, will be limited by law or regulation in the future.  The manner or timing of any such limitations cannot be predicted.  While we are exploring a number of alternatives, including the capture and storage of GHG emissions from new and existing power generation facilities, there is currently no demonstrated technology that controls the emissions of GHG from fossil-fueled generating plants.  We are advancing more efficient technologies for power generation, including ultra-super-critical technology and IGCC, as authorized by our regulatory commissions.  Carbon capture and storage or other GHG limiting technology, if successfully demonstrated, is likely to have a material impact on the cost of operating our fossil-fueled generating plants.  We are also pursuing renewable sources of energy generation, energy efficiency measures, gridSMART load management investments and other improved transmission, distribution and energy storage methods to reduce overall GHG emissions from our operations.  We will seek recovery of the costs from customers through our regulated rates and market prices of electricity.
Other Environmental Concerns
We perform environmental reviews and audits on a regular basis for the purpose of identifying, evaluating and addressing environmental concerns and issues.  In addition to the matters discussed above, we manage other environmental concerns that we do not believe are material or potentially material at this time.  If they become significant or if any new matters arise that we believe could be material, they could have a material adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures, including amounts related to legal matters and contingencies.  We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if:
We discuss the development and selection of critical accounting estimates as presented below with the Audit Committee of AEPs Board of Directors and the Audit Committee reviews the disclosure relating to them.
We believe that the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate.  However, actual results can differ significantly from those estimates.
The sections that follow present information about our most critical accounting estimates, as well as the effects of hypothetical changes in the material assumptions used to develop each estimate.
Regulatory Accounting
  Our consolidated financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.
Nature of Estimates Required:
We recognize regulatory assets (deferred expenses to be recovered in the future) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) for the economic effects of regulation.  Specifically, we match the timing of our expense recognition with the recovery of such expense in regulated revenues.  Likewise, we match income with the regulated revenues from our customers in the same accounting period.  We also record regulatory liabilities for refunds, or probable refunds, to customers that have not been made.
  When incurred costs are probable of recovery through regulated rates, we record them as regulatory assets on the balance sheet.  We review the probability of recovery at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur.  Examples of new events include changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  The assumptions and judgments used by regulatory authorities continue to have an impact on the recovery of costs, rate of return earned on invested capital and timing and amount of assets to be recovered through regulated rates.  If recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, we write-off that regulatory asset as a charge against earnings.  A write-off of regulatory assets may also reduce future cash flows since there will be no recovery through regulated rates.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
  A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on our net income.  Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to regulatory assets and liabilities.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
Revenue Recognition  Unbilled Revenues
:  We record revenues when energy is delivered to the customer.  The determination of sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their meters, which we perform on a systematic basis throughout the month.  At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue accrual is recorded.  This estimate is reversed in the following month and actual revenue is recorded based on meter readings.  In accordance with the applicable state commission regulatory treatment in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas, PSO and SWEPCo do not record the fuel portion of unbilled revenue.
Nature of Estimates Required
The change in unbilled electric utility revenues included in Revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income were $72 million, $47 million and $(19) million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The increases in unbilled electric revenues are primarily due to rate increases and changes in weather.  Accrued unbilled revenues for the Utility Operations segment were $448 million and $376 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
  For each operating company, we compute the monthly estimate for unbilled revenues as net generation less the current months billed KWH plus the prior months unbilled KWH.  However, due to meter reading issues, meter drift and other anomalies, a separate monthly calculation limits the unbilled estimate within a range of values.  This limiter calculation is derived from an allocation of billed KWH to the current month and previous month, on a cycle-by-cycle basis, and dividing the current month aggregated result by the billed KWH.  The limits are statistically set at one standard deviation from this percentage to determine the upper and lower limits of the range.  The unbilled estimate is compared to the limiter calculation and adjusted for variances exceeding the upper and lower limits.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
:  Significant fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period, weather, line losses or changes in the composition of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate.  A 1% change in the limiter calculation when it is outside the range would increase or decrease unbilled revenues by 1% of the accrued unbilled revenues on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
Revenue Recognition  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
  We consider fair value techniques, valuation adjustments related to credit and liquidity, and judgments related to the probability of forecasted transactions occurring within the specified time period to be critical accounting estimates.  These estimates are considered significant because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period and are dependent on many subjective factors.
Nature of Estimates Required:
  We measure the fair values of derivative instruments and hedge instruments accounted for using MTM accounting based on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price is not available, we estimate the fair value based on the best market information available including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes, supply and demand market data and other assumptions.  Fair value estimates, based upon the best market information available, involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment.  These uncertainties include projections of macroeconomic trends and future commodity prices, including supply and demand levels and future price volatility.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
We reduce fair values by estimated valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit quality.  We calculate liquidity adjustments by utilizing bid/ask spreads to estimate the potential fair value impact of liquidating open positions over a reasonable period of time.  We base credit adjustments on estimated defaults by counterparties that are calculated using historical default probabilities for companies with similar credit ratings.  We evaluate the probability of the occurrence of the forecasted transaction within the specified time period as provided in the original documentation related to hedge accounting.
  There is inherent risk in valuation modeling given the complexity and volatility of energy markets.  Therefore, it is possible that results in future periods may be materially different as contracts are ultimately settled.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
The probability that hedged forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the specified time period could change operating results by requiring amounts currently classified in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to be classified into operating income.
For additional information regarding derivatives, hedging and fair value measurements, see Note 11.
Long-Lived Assets
  In accordance with the requirements of SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, (SFAS 144) we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such assets may not be recoverable or the assets meet the held for sale criteria under SFAS 144.  The evaluations of long-lived held and used assets may result from abandonments, significant decreases in the market price of an asset, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical condition, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset, as well as other economic or operations analyses.  If the carrying amount is not recoverable, we record an impairment to the extent that the fair value of the asset is less than its book value.  For assets held for sale, an impairment is recognized if the expected net sales price is less than its book value.  For regulated assets, an impairment charge could be offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset, if rate recovery is probable.  For nonregulated assets, any impairment charge is recorded against earnings.
Nature of Estimates Required:
:  The fair value of an asset is the amount at which that asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, we estimate fair value using various internal and external valuation methods including cash flow projections or other market indicators of fair value such as bids received, comparable sales or independent appraisals.  The fair value of the asset could be different using different estimates and assumptions in these valuation techniques.
Assumptions and Approach Used
:   In connection with the evaluation of long-lived assets in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 144, the fair value of the asset can vary if different estimates and assumptions would have been used in our applied valuation techniques.  In cases of impairment as described in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we made our best estimate of fair value using valuation methods based on the most current information at that time.  We divested certain noncore assets and their sales values can vary from the recorded fair value as described in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Fluctuations in realized sales proceeds versus the estimated fair value of the asset are generally due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, differences in subsequent market conditions, the level of bidder interest, timing and terms of the transactions and our analysis of the benefits of the transaction.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
  We sponsor pension and other retirement and postretirement benefit plans in various forms covering all employees who meet eligibility requirements.  We account for these benefits under SFAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, SFAS 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions and SFAS 158.  See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement and postretirement benefits.  The measurement of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of assumptions.
Nature of Estimates Required:
  The critical assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:
Assumptions and Approach Used:
Other assumptions, such as retirement, mortality and turnover, are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect actual experience.
  The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, longer or shorter life spans of participants or higher or lower lump sum versus annuity payout elections by plan participants.  These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recorded.  If a 50 basis point change were to occur for the following assumptions, the approximate effect on the financial statements would be as follows:
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
 
 
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements in 2008
We partially adopted SFAS 157 in 2008 and completed our adoption effective January 1, 2009.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.  The adoption of SFAS 157 had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.  See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements section of Note 11 for further information.
We adopted SFAS 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective January 1, 2008. The statement permitted entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  The standard also established presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparison between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities.  At adoption, we did not elect the fair value option for any assets or liabilities.
 
The FASB issued SFAS 162 The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS 162), clarifying the sources of generally accepted accounting principles in descending order of authority.  The statement specifies that the reporting entity, not its auditors, is responsible for its compliance with GAAP.  We adopted SFAS 162 with no impact on our financial statements.
The FASB ratified EITF 06-10 Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements a consensus on collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements in which an employee owns and controls the insurance policy.  Under EITF 06-10, an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if the employer has agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employee's retirement or to provide the employee with a death benefit based on a substantive arrangement with the employee.  We adopted EITF 06-10 effective January 1, 2008 with a cumulative effect reduction of $16 million ($10 million, net of tax) to beginning retained earnings.
We adopted EITF 06-11 Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards (EITF 06-11) effective January 1, 2008.  The rule addressed the recognition of income tax benefits of dividends on employee share-based compensation.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161.  Under the SFAS 133 requirements, the seller of a credit derivative shall disclose additional information for each derivative, including credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument, even if the likelihood of payment is remote.  Further, the standard requires the disclosure of current payment status/performance risk of all FIN 45 guarantees.  In the event an entity uses internal groupings, the entity shall disclose how those groupings are determined and used for managing risk.  We adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements but increased our guarantees disclosures in Note 6.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities amending SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and FIN 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  The amendments required additional disclosure regarding transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities.  We adopted the standards effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of these standards had no impact on our financial statements but increased our footnote disclosures for variable interest entities.  See Principles of Consolidation section of Note 1.
FSP FIN 39-1 amends FIN 39 Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts by replacing the interpretations definition of contracts with the definition of derivative instruments per SFAS 133.  It also requires entities that offset fair values of derivatives with the same party under a netting agreement to net the fair values of related cash collateral.  The entities must disclose whether or not they offset fair values of derivatives and related cash collateral and amounts recognized for cash collateral payables and receivables at the end of each reporting period.  This standard changed our method of netting certain balance sheet amounts.  We adopted FIN 39-1 effective January 1, 2008.
See Pronouncements Adopted in 2008 section of Note 2.
New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted During the First Quarter of 2009
The FASB issued SFAS 141R (revised Business Combinations 2007) improving financial reporting about business combinations and their effects.  SFAS 141R can affect tax positions on previous acquisitions.  We do not have any such tax positions that result in adjustments.  We adopted SFAS 141R effective January 1, 2009.  We will apply it to any future business combinations.
The FASB issued SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160), modifying reporting for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in consolidated financial statements.  The statement requires noncontrolling interest be reported in equity and establishes a new framework for recognizing net income or loss and comprehensive income by the controlling interest.  We have retrospectively adopted SFAS 160.  See SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements section of Note 2 for the impact of adoption.
The FASB issued SFAS 161 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 161), enhancing disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  The standard requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation.  This standard will increase our disclosure requirements related to derivative instruments and hedging activities in future reports.  We adopted SFAS 161 effective January 1, 2009.
The FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-5 Issuers Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair Value with a Third-Party Credit Enhancement (EITF 08-5) a consensus on liabilities with third-party credit enhancements when the liability is measured and disclosed at fair value.  The consensus treats the liability and the credit enhancement as two units of accounting.  We adopted EITF 08-5 effective January 1, 2009.  It will be applied prospectively with the effect of initial application included as a change in fair value of the liability in the period of adoption.  The adoption of this standard will impact the financial statements in the 2009 Annual Report as we report fair value of long-term debt annually.
The FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-6 Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations (EITF 08-6), a consensus on equity method investment accounting including initial and allocated carrying values and subsequent measurements.  We prospectively adopted EITF 08-6 effective January 1, 2009 with no impact on our financial statements.
We adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1 Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (EITF  03-6-1) effective January 1, 2009.  The rule addressed whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and determined that the instruments need to be included in earnings allocation in computing EPS under the two-class method.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 142-3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assetsamending factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.  We adopted the rule effective January 1, 2009.  The guidance is prospectively applied to intangible assets acquired after the effective date.  The standards disclosure requirements are applied prospectively to all intangible assets as of January 1, 2009.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements.
 
Pronouncements Effective in the Future
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 132R-1 Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assetsproviding additional disclosure guidance for pension and OPEB plan assets.  The standard adds disclosure requirements including hierarchical classes for fair value and concentration of risk.  This standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Management expects this standard to increase the disclosure requirements related to our benefit plans.  We will adopt the standard effective for the 2009 Annual Report.
 
 
 
 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
Market Risks
Our Utility Operations segment is exposed to certain market risks as a major power producer and marketer of wholesale electricity, coal and emission allowances.  These risks include commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.  In addition, we may be exposed to foreign currency exchange risk because occasionally we procure various services and materials used in our energy business from foreign suppliers.  These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact us due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates.
Our Generation and Marketing segment, operating primarily within ERCOT, transacts in wholesale energy trading and marketing contracts.  This segment is exposed to certain market risks as a marketer of wholesale electricity.  These risks include commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.  These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact us due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates.
All Other includes natural gas operations which holds forward natural gas contracts that were not sold with the natural gas pipeline and storage assets.  These contracts are financial derivatives, which will gradually settle and completely expire in 2011.  Our risk objective is to keep these positions generally risk neutral through maturity.
We employ risk management contracts including physical forward purchase and sale contracts and financial forward purchase and sale contracts.  We engage in risk management of electricity, natural gas, coal and emissions and to a lesser degree other commodities associated with our energy business.  As a result, we are subject to price risk.  The amount of risk taken is determined by the commercial operations group in accordance with the market risk policy approved by the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors.  Our market risk oversight staff independently monitors our risk policies, procedures and risk levels and provides members of the Commercial Operations Risk Committee (CORC) various daily, weekly and/or monthly reports regarding compliance with policies, limits and procedures.  The CORC consists of our President  AEP Utilities, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations and Chief Risk Officer.  When commercial activities exceed predetermined limits, we modify the positions to reduce the risk to be within the limits unless specifically approved by the CORC.
The Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO) adopted disclosure standards for risk management contracts to improve clarity, understanding and consistency of information reported.  The following tables provide information on our risk management activities.
Mark-to-Market Risk Management Contract Net Assets (Liabilities)
The following two tables summarize the various mark-to-market (MTM) positions included on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 and the reasons for changes in our total MTM value included on our balance sheet as compared to December 31, 2007.
Maturity and Source of Fair Value of MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets (Liabilities)
The following table presents the maturity, by year, of our net assets/liabilities, to give an indication of when these MTM amounts will settle and generate cash:
 
 
Cash Flow Hedges Included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
We are exposed to market fluctuations in energy commodity prices impacting our power operations.  We monitor these risks on our future operations and may use various commodity derivative instruments designated in qualifying cash flow hedge strategies to mitigate the impact of these fluctuations on the future cash flows.  We do not hedge all commodity price risk.
We use interest rate derivative transactions to manage interest rate risk related to existing variable rate debt and to manage interest rate exposure on anticipated borrowings of fixed-rate debt.  We do not hedge all interest rate exposure.
We use foreign currency derivatives to lock in prices on certain forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies where deemed necessary, and designate qualifying instruments as cash flow hedges.  We do not hedge all foreign currency exposure.
The following table provides the detail on designated, effective cash flow hedges included in AOCI on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and the reasons for changes in cash flow hedges from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008.  The following table also indicates what portion of designated, effective hedges are expected to be reclassified into net income in the next 12 months.  Only contracts designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in AOCI.  Therefore, economic hedge contracts which are not designated as effective cash flow hedges are marked-to-market and are included in the previous risk management tables.  All amounts are presented net of related income taxes.
Credit Risk
We limit credit risk in our wholesale marketing and trading activities by assessing creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continuing to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated.  We use Moodys Investors Service, Standard & Poors and current market-based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial health of counterparties on an ongoing basis.  If an external rating is not available, an internal rating is generated utilizing a quantitative tool developed by Moodys to estimate probability of default that corresponds to an implied external agency credit rating.  Based on our analysis, we set appropriate risk parameters for each internally-graded counterparty.  We may also require cash deposits, letters of credit and parental/affiliate guarantees as security from counterparties in order to mitigate credit risk.
We have risk management contracts with numerous counterparties.  Since open risk management contracts are valued based on changes in market prices of the related commodities, our exposures change daily.  At December 31, 2008, our credit exposure net of collateral to sub investment grade counterparties was approximately 7.1%, expressed in terms of net MTM assets, net receivables and the net open positions for contracts not subject to MTM (representing economic risk even though there may not be risk of accounting loss).  As of December 31, 2008, the following table approximates our counterparty credit quality and exposure based on netting across commodities, instruments and legal entities where applicable:
Collateral Triggering Events
Under a limited number of counterparty contracts primarily related to our pre-2002 risk management activities and under the tariffs of the Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) and Independent System Operators (ISOs), we are obligated to post an amount of collateral if our credit ratings decline below investment grade.  The amount of collateral required fluctuates based on market prices and our total exposure.  Our risk management organization assesses the appropriateness of these collateral triggering items in ongoing contract negotiations.  We believe that a downgrade below investment grade is unlikely.  As of December 31, 2008, we would have been required to post $174 million of collateral if our credit ratings had declined below investment grade of which $161 million is attributable to our RTO and ISO activities.
VaR Associated with Risk Management Contracts
We use a risk measurement model, which calculates Value at Risk (VaR) to measure our commodity price risk in the risk management portfolio. The VaR is based on the variance-covariance method using historical prices to estimate volatilities and correlations and assumes a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period.  Based on this VaR analysis, at December 31, 2008, a near term typical change in commodity prices is not expected to have a material effect on our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The following table shows the end, high, average and low market risk as measured by VaR for the years ended:
We back-test our VaR results against performance due to actual price moves.  Based on the assumed 95% confidence interval, the performance due to actual price moves would be expected to exceed the VaR at least once every 20 trading days.  Our backtesting results show that our actual performance exceeded VaR far fewer than once every 20 trading days.  As a result, we believe our VaR calculation is conservative.
As our VaR calculation captures recent price moves, we also perform regular stress testing of the portfolio to understand our exposure to extreme price moves.  We employ a historical-based method whereby the current portfolio is subjected to actual, observed price moves from the last three years in order to ascertain which historical price moves translated into the largest potential mark-to-market loss.  We then research the underlying positions, price moves and market events that created the most significant exposure.
Interest Rate Risk
We utilize an Earnings at Risk (EaR) model to measure interest rate market risk exposure. EaR statistically quantifies the extent to which AEPs interest expense could vary over the next twelve months and gives a probabilistic estimate of different levels of interest expense.  The resulting EaR is interpreted as the dollar amount by which actual interest expense for the next twelve months could exceed expected interest expense with a one-in-twenty chance of occurrence.  The primary drivers of EaR are from the existing floating rate debt (including short-term debt) as well as long-term debt issuances in the next twelve months.  For 2009, the estimated EaR on our debt portfolio is $86 million.
 
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of American Electric Power Company, Inc.:
 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and subsidiary companies (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, effective January 1, 2007. As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, effective December 31, 2006.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been retrospectively adjusted for the adoption of FASB Statement No. 160, " (SFAS 160)."
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2009 (not presented herein) expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 27, 2009
(May 1, 2009 as to the effects of the adoption of SFAS 160 and related disclosure in Notes 2, 10,12 and 17)
 
 
 
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
 
 
ORGANIZATION
The principal business conducted by seven of our electric utility operating companies is the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power.  TCC exited the generation business and along with WPCo and KGPCo, provide only transmission and distribution services.  TNC is a part owner in the Oklaunion Plant operated by PSO.  TNC leases their entire portion of the output of the plant through 2027 to a non-utility affiliate.  AEGCo is a regulated electricity generation business whose function is to provide power to our regulated electric utility operating companies.  These companies are subject to regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act and the Energy Policy Act of 2005.  These companies maintain accounts in accordance with the FERC and other regulatory guidelines.  These companies are subject to further regulation with regard to rates and other matters by state regulatory commissions.
We also engage in wholesale electricity, natural gas and other commodity marketing and risk management activities in the United States.  In addition, our operations include nonregulated wind farms and barging operations and we provide various energy-related services.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Rates and Service Regulation
Our public utility subsidiaries rates are regulated by the FERC and state regulatory commissions in our eleven state operating territories.  The state regulatory commissions approve retail rates and regulate the retail services and operations of the utility subsidiaries for the generation and supply of power, a majority of transmission energy delivery services and distribution services.  The FERC regulates our affiliated transactions, including AEPSC intercompany service billing which are generally at cost, under the 2005 Public Utility Holding Company Act and the Federal Power Act.  The FERC also has jurisdiction over the issuances and acquisitions of securities of our public utility subsidiaries, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric utility or holding company.  A FERC order in 2008 pursuant to the Federal Power Act codified that for non-power goods and services, a non-regulated affiliate can bill a public utility company no more than market while a public utility must bill the higher of cost or market to a non-regulated affiliate.  The state regulatory commissions in Virginia and West Virginia also regulate certain intercompany transactions under their affiliates statutes.
The FERC regulates wholesale power markets and wholesale power transactions.  Our wholesale power transactions are generally market-based.  They are cost-based regulated when we negotiate and file a cost-based contract with the FERC or the FERC determines that we have market power in the region where the transaction occurs.  We enter into wholesale power supply contracts with various municipalities and cooperatives that are FERC-regulated, cost-based contracts.  Our wholesale power transactions in the SPP region are cost-based due to SWEPCo and PSO having market power in the SPP region.
The FERC also regulates, on a cost basis, our wholesale transmission service and rates except in Texas.  The FERC claims jurisdiction over retail transmission rates when retail rates are unbundled in connection with restructuring.  CSPCos and OPCos retail rates in Ohio, APCos retail rates in Virginia, I&Ms retail rates in Michigan and TCCs and TNCs retail rates in Texas are unbundled.  Therefore, CSPCos and OPCos retail transmission rates are based on the FERCs Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) rates that are cost-based.  Although APCos retail rates in Virginia, I&Ms retail rates in Michigan and TCCs and TNCs retail rates in Texas are unbundled, retail transmission rates are regulated, on a cost basis, by the state regulatory commissions.  Starting in 2009, APCo may file, and the Virginia SCC shall approve, a rate adjustment clause that passes through charges associated with the FERCs OATT rates to APCos Virginia retail customers.  Bundled retail transmission rates are regulated, on a cost basis, by the state commissions.
In addition, the FERC regulates the SIA, the Interconnection Agreement, the CSW Operating Agreement, the System Transmission Integration Agreement, the Transmission Equalization Agreement, the Transmission Coordination Agreement and the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement, all of which allocate shared system costs and revenues to the utility subsidiaries that are parties to each agreement.
The state regulatory commissions regulate all of our retail public utility services/operations (generation/power supply, transmission and distribution operations) and rates except in Ohio and the ERCOT region of Texas.  Our retail generation/power supply operations and rates for CSPCo and OPCo in Ohio are no longer cost-based regulated.  These rates were subject to RSPs through December 31, 2008.  The PUCO extended these rates until they issue a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the February 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  The ESP rates are under recently enacted legislation, which continues the concept of increasing rates over time to approach market rates.  In the ERCOT region of Texas, the generation/supply business is under customer choice and market pricing.  AEP has no Texas jurisdictional retail generation/power supply operations other than a minor supply operation through a commercial and industrial customer REP.  In 2007, the Virginia legislation ended a transition to market-based rates and returned APCo to cost-based regulation.  See Note 4 for further information on restructuring legislation and its effects on AEP in Ohio, Texas and Michigan.
Both the FERC and state regulatory commissions are permitted to review and audit the books and records of any company within a public utility holding company system.
Principles of Consolidation
Our consolidated financial statements include our wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary.  Intercompany items are eliminated in consolidation.  Equity investments not substantially-controlled and which we are not the primary beneficiary of the entity, that are 50% or less owned are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and recorded as Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets; equity earnings are included in Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  For years, we have had ownership interests in generating units that are jointly-owned with nonaffiliated companies.  Our proportionate share of the operating costs associated with such facilities is included on our Consolidated Statements of Income and our proportionate share of the assets and liabilities are reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
FIN 46R is a consolidation model that considers risk absorption of a variable interest entity (VIE), also referred to as variability.  Entities are required to consolidate a VIE when it is determined that they are the primary beneficiary of that VIE, as defined by FIN 46R.  In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider factors such as equity at risk, the amount of variability of the VIE we absorb, guarantees of indebtedness, voting rights including kick-out rights, power to direct the VIE and other factors.  We believe that significant assumptions and judgments have been consistently applied and that there are no other reasonable judgments or assumptions that would have resulted in a different conclusion.
We are the primary beneficiary of Sabine, DHLC, JMG and a protected cell of EIS.  We hold a variable interest in Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline, LLC West Virginia Series (West Virginia Series).  In addition, we have not provided financial or other support that was not previously contractually required to any VIE.
Sabine is a mining operator providing mining services to SWEPCo.  SWEPCo has no equity investment in Sabine but is Sabines only customer.  SWEPCo has guaranteed the debt obligations and lease obligations of Sabine.  Under the terms of the note agreements, substantially all assets are pledged and all rights under the lignite mining agreement are assigned to SWEPCo.  The creditors of Sabine have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  Under the provisions of the mining agreement, SWEPCo is required to pay, as a part of the cost of lignite delivered, an amount equal to mining costs plus a management fee which is included in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Based on these facts, management has concluded SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate Sabine.  SWEPCos total billings from Sabine for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $110 million and $95 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of Sabines assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
DHLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SWEPCo.  DHLC is a mining operator who sells 50% of the lignite produced to SWEPCo and 50% to Cleco Corporation, a nonaffiliated company.  SWEPCo and Cleco Corporation share half of the executive board seats, with equal voting rights and each entity guarantees a 50% share of DHLCs debt.  The creditors of DHLC have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  Based on the structure and equity ownership, management has concluded that SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate DHLC.  SWEPCos total billings from DHLC for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $44 million and $35 million, respectively.  These billings are included in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  See the tables below for the classification of DHLC assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
OPCo has a lease agreement with JMG to finance OPCos FGD system installed on OPCos Gavin Plant.  The PUCO approved the original lease agreement between OPCo and JMG.  JMG has a capital structure of substantially all debt from pollution control bonds and other debt.  JMG owns and leases the FGD to OPCo.  JMG is considered a single-lessee leasing arrangement with only one asset.  OPCos lease payments are the only form of repayment associated with JMGs debt obligations even though OPCo does not guarantee JMGs debt.  The creditors of JMG have no recourse to any AEP entity other than OPCo for the lease payment.  OPCo does not have any ownership interest in JMG.  Based on the structure of the entity, management has concluded OPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate JMG.  OPCos total billings from JMG for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $57 million and $46 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of JMGs assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
 
EIS is a captive insurance company with multiple protected cells in which our subsidiaries participate in one protected cell for approximately ten lines of insurance.  Neither AEP nor its subsidiaries have an equity investment in EIS.  The AEP system is essentially this EIS cells only participant, but allow certain third parties access to this insurance.  Our subsidiaries and any allowed third parties share in the insurance coverage, premiums and risk of loss from claims.  Based on the structure of the protected cell, we have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary and that we are required to consolidate the protected cell.  Our insurance premium payments to EIS for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $28 million and $26 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of EISs assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The balances below represent the assets and liabilities of the VIEs that are consolidated.  These balances include intercompany transactions that would be eliminated upon consolidation.
 
In September 2007, we and Allegheny (AYE) formed a joint venture by creating Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline, LLC (PATH).  PATH is a series limited liability company and was created to construct a high-voltage transmission line project in the PJM region.  PATH consists of the Ohio Series, the West Virginia Series (PATH-WV), both owned equally by AYE and us and the Allegheny Series which is 100% owned by AYE.  Provisions exist within the PATH-WV agreement that make it a VIE.  The Ohio Series does not include the same provision that makes PATH-WV a VIE.  The other series are not considered VIEs.  We are not required to consolidate PATH-WV as we are not the primary beneficiary, although we hold a significant interest in PATH-WV.  Our equity investment in PATH-WV is included in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We and AYE share the returns and losses equally in PATH-WV.  Our subsidiaries and AYEs subsidiaries provide services to the PATH companies through service agreements. At the current time, PATH-WV has no debt outstanding.  However, when debt is issued, the debt to equity ratio in each series will be consistent with other regulated utilities and the entities are designed to maintain this financing structure.  The entities recover costs through regulated rates.
Given the structure of the entity, we may be required to provide future financial support to PATH-WV in the form of a capital call.  This would be considered an increase to our investment in the entity.  Our maximum exposure to loss is to the extent of our investment.  Currently the entity has no debt financing.  The likelihood of such a loss is remote since the FERC approved PATH-WVs request for regulatory recovery of cost and a return on the equity invested.
Our investment in PATH-WV as of December 31, 2008 was:
We record our investment in PATH-WV in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  As of December 31, 2007, we did not make a capital contribution to PATH-WV and therefore had no retained earnings.
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As the owner of cost-based rate-regulated electric public utility companies, our consolidated financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  In accordance with SFAS 71, regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and income with its passage to customers through the reduction of regulated revenues.  Due to the commencement of legislatively required restructuring and a transition to customer choice and market-based rates, we discontinued the application of SFAS 71, regulatory accounting, for the generation portion of our business as follows: in Ohio for OPCo and CSPCo in September 2000, in Virginia for APCo in June 2000 and in Texas for TCC and TNC and the Texas portion of SWEPCo in September 1999.  In 2007, the Virginia legislature amended its restructuring legislation to provide for the re-regulation of generation and supply business and rates on a cost basis.  SFAS 101, Regulated Enterprises  Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement No. 71 requires the recognition of an impairment of stranded regulatory assets and stranded plant costs if they are not recoverable in regulated rates.  In addition, an enterprise is required to eliminate from its balance sheet the effects of any actions of regulators that had been recognized as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities pursuant to SFAS 71.  Such impairments and adjustments arising from the discontinuance or reapplication of SFAS 71 are classified by SFAS 101 as an extraordinary item.  Consistent with SFAS 101, APCo recorded an extraordinary reduction in earnings and shareholders equity from the reapplication of SFAS 71 regulatory accounting in 2007 resulting from the re-regulation of their generation and supply rates on a cost basis.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  These estimates include, but are not limited to, inventory valuation, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill, intangible and long-lived asset impairment, unbilled electricity revenue, valuation of long-term energy contracts, the effects of regulation, long-lived asset recovery, the effects of contingencies and certain assumptions made in accounting for pension and postretirement benefits.  The estimates and assumptions used are based upon managements evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements.  Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Equity Investments
Electric utility property, plant and equipment are stated at original purchase cost. Property, plant and equipment of nonregulated operations and equity investments (included in Deferred Charges and Other) are stated at fair market value at acquisition (or as adjusted for any applicable impairments) plus the original cost of property acquired or constructed since the acquisition, less disposals.  Additions, major replacements and betterments are added to the plant accounts.  For the Utility Operations segment, normal and routine retirements from the plant accounts, net of salvage, are charged to accumulated depreciation for both cost-based rate-regulated and most nonregulated operations under the group composite method of depreciation.  The group composite method of depreciation assumes that on average, asset components are retired at the end of their useful lives and thus there is no gain or loss.  The equipment in each primary electric plant account is identified as a separate group.  Under the group composite method of depreciation, continuous interim routine replacements of items such as boiler tubes, pumps, motors, etc. result in the original cost, less salvage, being charged to accumulated depreciation.  For the nonregulated generation assets, a gain or loss would be recorded if the retirement is not considered an interim routine replacement.  The depreciation rates that are established for the generating plants take into account the past history of interim capital replacements and the amount of salvage received.  These rates and the related lives are subject to periodic review.  Gains and losses are recorded for any retirements in the AEP River Operations and Generation and Marketing segments.  Removal costs are charged to regulatory liabilities for cost-based rate-regulated operations and charged to expense for nonregulated operations.  The costs of labor, materials and overhead incurred to operate and maintain our plants are included in operating expenses.
Long-lived assets are required to be tested for impairment when it is determined that the carrying value of the assets may no longer be recoverable or when the assets meet the held for sale criteria under SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  Equity investments are required to be tested for impairment when it is determined there may be an other than temporary loss in value.
The fair value of an asset or investment is the amount at which that asset or investment could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, as opposed to a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets or investments in active markets, fair value is estimated using various internal and external valuation methods including cash flow analysis and appraisals.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalization
AFUDC represents the estimated cost of borrowed and equity funds used to finance construction projects that is capitalized and recovered through depreciation over the service life of regulated electric utility plant.  For nonregulated operations, including generating assets in Ohio and Texas, effective with the discontinuance of SFAS 71 regulatory accounting, interest is capitalized during construction in accordance with SFAS 34, Capitalization of Interest Costs.
Valuation of Nonderivative Financial Instruments
The book values of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accounts Receivable, Short-term Debt and Accounts Payable approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.  The book value of the pre-April 1983 spent nuclear fuel disposal liability approximates the best estimate of its fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and Cash Equivalents include temporary cash investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Other Temporary Investments
Other Temporary Investments include marketable securities that we intend to hold for less than one year, investments by our protected cell insurance company and funds held by trustees primarily for the payment of debt.
We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS 115).  We do not have any investments classified as trading.
Available-for-sale securities reflected in Other Temporary Investments are carried at fair value with the unrealized gain or loss, net of tax, reported in other comprehensive income.  Held-to-maturity securities reflected in Other Temporary Investments are carried at amortized cost.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification or weighted average cost method.  The fair value of most investment securities is determined by currently available market prices.  Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities that are traded in the market to estimate fair value.
In evaluating potential impairment of securities with unrealized losses, we considered, among other criteria, the current fair value compared to cost, the length of time the security's fair value has been below cost, our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in value and current economic conditions. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we did not record any other-than-temporary impairments of Other Temporary Investments.
The following is a summary of Other Temporary Investments:
Proceeds from sales of current available-for-sale securities were $1.2 billion, $10.5 billion and $17.4 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Purchases of current available-for-sale securities were $1.1 billion, $10.3 billion and $17.7 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  During 2008, there were no gross realized gains or losses from the sale of current available-for-sale securities.  Gross realized gains from the sale of current available-for-sale securities were $16 million and $39 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Gross realized losses from the sale of current available-for-sale securities were not material in 2007 or 2006.  At December 31, 2008, the fair value of corporate equity securities with an unrealized loss position was $17 million and we had no investments in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve months.  At December 31, 2008, the fair value of debt securities are primarily debt based mutual funds with short-term, intermediate and long-term maturities.
Inventory
Fossil fuel inventories are generally carried at average cost.  Materials and supplies inventories are carried at average cost.
Accounts Receivable
Customer accounts receivable primarily include receivables from wholesale and retail energy customers, receivables from energy contract counterparties related to our risk management activities and customer receivables primarily related to other revenue-generating activities.
We recognize revenue from electric power sales when we deliver power to our customers.  To the extent that deliveries have occurred but a bill has not been issued, we accrue and recognize, as Accrued Unbilled Revenues on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, an estimate of the revenues for energy delivered since the last billing.
AEP Credit factors accounts receivable for certain subsidiaries, including CSPCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and a portion of APCo.  Since APCo does not have regulatory authority to sell accounts receivable in its West Virginia regulatory jurisdiction, only a portion of APCos accounts receivable are sold to AEP Credit.  AEP Credit has a sale of receivables agreement with banks and commercial paper conduits.  Under the sale of receivables agreement, AEP Credit sells an interest in the receivables it acquires to the commercial paper conduits and banks and receives cash.  This transaction constitutes a sale of receivables in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, allowing the receivables to be removed from the companys balance sheet (see Sale of Receivables  AEP Credit section of Note 14).
Deferred Fuel Costs
The cost of fuel and related emission allowances and emission control chemicals/consumables is charged to Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation expense when the fuel is burned or the allowance or consumable is utilized.    The cost of fuel also includes the amortization of nuclear fuel costs which are computed primarily on the units-of-production method.  Where applicable under governing state regulatory commission retail rate orders, fuel cost over-recoveries (the excess of fuel revenues billed to customers over applicable fuel costs incurred) are deferred as current regulatory liabilities and under-recoveries (the excess of applicable fuel costs incurred over fuel revenues billed to customers) are deferred as current regulatory assets.  These deferrals are amortized when refunded or when billed to customers in later months with the regulators review and approval.  The amount of an over-recovery or under-recovery can also be affected by actions of regulators.  On a routine basis, state regulatory commissions audit our fuel cost calculations and deferrals.  When a fuel cost disallowance becomes probable, we adjust our deferrals and record provisions for estimated refunds to recognize these probable outcomes.  Fuel cost over-recovery and under-recovery balances are classified as noncurrent when the fuel clauses have been suspended or terminated.
In general, changes in fuel costs in Kentucky for KPCo, Indiana (beginning July 1, 2007) and Michigan for I&M, Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas for SWEPCo, Oklahoma for PSO and Virginia and West Virginia (beginning July 1, 2006) for APCo are reflected in rates in a timely manner through the fuel cost adjustment clauses in place in those states.  All of the profits from off-system sales are shared with customers through fuel clauses in West Virginia (beginning July 1, 2006).  A portion of profits from off-system sales are shared with customers through fuel clauses in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arkansas, Kentucky, Virginia (beginning September 1, 2007) and in some areas of Michigan.  Where fuel clauses have been eliminated due to the transition to market pricing (Ohio effective January 1, 2001), changes in fuel costs impact earnings unless recovered in the sales price for electricity.  In other state jurisdictions (prior to July 1, 2007 in Indiana and prior to July 1, 2006 in West Virginia), where fuel clauses were capped, frozen or suspended for a period of years, fuel costs impacted earnings.
Revenue Recognition
Regulatory Accounting
Our consolidated financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues in the same accounting period and by matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates.  Regulatory liabilities or regulatory assets are also recorded for unrealized MTM gains or losses that occur due to changes in the fair value of physical and/or financial contracts that are derivatives and that are subject to the regulated ratemaking process when realized.
When regulatory assets are probable of recovery through regulated rates, we record them as assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We test for probability of recovery at each balance sheet date or whenever new events occur.  Examples include the issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  If it is determined that recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, we write off that regulatory asset as a charge against income.
Traditional Electricity Supply and Delivery Activities
Revenues are recognized from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services.  We recognize the revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income upon delivery of the energy to the customer and include unbilled as well as billed amounts.  In accordance with the applicable state commission regulatory treatment, PSO and SWEPCo do not record the fuel portion of unbilled revenue.
Most of the power produced at the generation plants of the AEP East companies is sold to PJM, the RTO operating in the east service territory.  We purchase power from PJM to supply our customers.  These power sales and purchases are reported on a net basis as revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Other RTOs in which we operate do not function in the same manner as PJM.  They function as balancing organizations and not as  exchanges.
Physical energy purchases, including those from RTOs, that are identified as non-trading, but excluding PJM purchases described in the preceding paragraph, are accounted for on a gross basis in Purchased Electricity for Resale on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
In general, we record expenses when purchased electricity is received and when expenses are incurred, with the exception of certain power purchase contracts that are derivatives and accounted for using MTM accounting where generation/supply rates are not cost-based regulated, such as in Ohio and the ERCOT portion of Texas.  In jurisdictions where the generation/supply business is subject to cost-based regulation, the unrealized MTM amounts are deferred as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains).
For power purchased under derivative contracts in our west zone where we are short capacity, we recognize as revenues the unrealized gains and losses (other than those subject to regulatory deferral) that result from measuring these contracts at fair value during the period before settlement.  If the contract results in the physical delivery of power from a RTO or any other counterparty, we reverse the previously recorded unrealized gains and losses from MTM valuations and record the settled amounts gross as Purchased Electricity for Resale.  If the contract does not result in physical delivery, we reverse the previously recorded unrealized gains and losses from MTM valuations and record the settled amounts as Revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income on a net basis (see Derivatives and Hedging section of Note 11).
Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities
We engage in wholesale electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances marketing and risk management activities focused on wholesale markets where we own assets and adjacent markets.  Our activities include the purchase and sale of energy under forward contracts at fixed and variable prices and the buying and selling of financial energy contracts, which include exchange traded futures and options, as well as over-the-counter options and swaps.  We engage in certain energy marketing and risk management transactions with RTOs.
We recognize revenues and expenses from wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are not derivatives upon delivery of the commodity.  We use MTM accounting for wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are derivatives unless the derivative is designated in a qualifying cash flow hedge relationship or a normal purchase or sale.  We include the unrealized and realized gains and losses on wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are accounted for using MTM in Revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income on a net basis.  In jurisdictions subject to cost-based regulation, we defer the unrealized MTM amounts as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains).  We include unrealized MTM gains and losses resulting from derivative contracts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as Risk Management Assets or Liabilities as appropriate.
Certain qualifying wholesale marketing and risk management derivative transactions are designated as hedges of variability in future cash flows as a result of forecasted transactions (cash flow hedge).  We initially record the effective portion of the cash flow hedges gain or loss as a component of AOCI.  When the forecasted transaction is realized and affects net income, we subsequently reclassify the gain or loss on the hedge from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income into revenues or expenses within the same financial statement line item as the forecasted transaction on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Excluding those jurisdictions subject to cost-based regulation, we recognize the ineffective portion of the gain or loss in revenues or expense immediately on our Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on the specific nature of the associated hedged risk.  In regulated jurisdictions, we defer the ineffective portion as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains) (see Cash Flow Hedging Strategies section of Note 11).
Barging Activities
AEP River Operations revenue is recognized based on percentage of voyage completion.  The proportion of freight transportation revenue to be recognized is determined by applying a percentage to the contractual charges for such services.  The percentage is determined by dividing the number of miles from the loading point to the position of the barge as of the end of the accounting period by the total miles to the destination specified in the customers freight contract.  The position of the barge at accounting period end is determined by our computerized barge tracking system.
Construction Projects for Outside Parties
We engage in construction projects for outside parties and account for the projects on the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition.  This method recognizes revenue, including the related margin, as we incur project costs.  We include such revenue and related expenses in Utility Operations revenue and Other Operation and Maintenance expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  We also include contractually billable expenses not yet billed in Current Assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Levelization of Nuclear Refueling Outage Costs
In order to match costs with nuclear refueling cycles, I&M defers incremental operation and maintenance costs associated with periodic refueling outages at its Cook Plant and amortizes the costs over the period beginning with the month following the start of each units refueling outage and lasting until the end of the month in which the same units next scheduled refueling outage begins.  I&M adjusts the amortization amount as necessary to ensure full amortization of all deferred costs by the end of the refueling cycle.
Maintenance
We expense maintenance costs as incurred.  If it becomes probable that we will recover specifically-incurred costs through future rates, we establish a regulatory asset to match the expensing of those maintenance costs with their recovery in cost-based regulated revenues.  We defer distribution tree trimming costs for PSO and amortize the costs above the level included in base rates commensurate with recovery through a rate rider in Oklahoma.
Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits
We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes.  Under the liability method, we provide deferred income taxes for all temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities which will result in a future tax consequence.
When the flow-through method of accounting for temporary differences is reflected in regulated revenues (that is, when deferred taxes are not included in the cost of service for determining regulated rates for electricity), we record deferred income taxes and establish related regulatory assets and liabilities to match the regulated revenues and tax expense.
We account for investment tax credits under the flow-through method except where regulatory commissions reflect investment tax credits in the rate-making process on a deferral basis.  We amortize deferred investment tax credits over the life of the plant investment.
We account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FIN 48.  Effective with the adoption of FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007, we classify interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions as interest expense or income as appropriate and classify penalties as Other Operation and Maintenance.
Excise Taxes
We act as an agent for some state and local governments and collect from customers certain excise taxes levied by those state or local governments on our customers.  We do not recognize these taxes as revenue or expense.
Debt and Preferred Stock
We defer gains and losses from the reacquisition of debt used to finance regulated electric utility plants and amortize the deferral over the remaining term of the reacquired debt in accordance with their rate-making treatment unless the debt is refinanced.  If we refinance the reacquired debt associated with the regulated business, the reacquisition costs attributable to the portions of the business subject to cost-based regulatory accounting are generally deferred and amortized over the term of the replacement debt consistent with its recovery in rates.  Some jurisdictions require that these costs be expensed upon reacquisition.  We report gains and losses on the reacquisition of debt for operations not subject to cost-based rate regulation in Interest Expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
We defer debt discount or premium and debt issuance expenses and amortize generally utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related debt.  The straight-line method approximates the effective interest method and is consistent with the treatment in rates for regulated operations.  We include the amortization expense in Interest Expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Where reflected in rates, we include redemption premiums paid to reacquire preferred stock of certain utility subsidiaries in paid-in capital and amortize the premiums to retained earnings commensurate with recovery in rates.  We credit the excess of par value over costs of preferred stock reacquired to paid-in capital and reclassify the excess to retained earnings upon the redemption of the entire preferred stock series.  We credit the excess of par value over the costs of reacquired preferred stock for nonregulated subsidiaries to retained earnings upon reacquisition.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
When we acquire businesses, we record the fair value of all assets and liabilities, including intangible assets.  To the extent that consideration exceeds the fair value of identified assets, we record goodwill.  We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives.  We test acquired goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually at their estimated fair value.  We test goodwill at the reporting unit level and other intangibles at the asset level.  Fair value is the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, we estimate fair value using various internal and external valuation methods.  We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their respective estimated lives, currently ranging from 5 to 15 years, to their estimated residual values.  We also review the lives of the amortizable intangibles with finite lives on an annual basis.
Emission Allowances
We record emission allowances at cost, including the annual SO and NO emission allowance entitlements received at no cost from the Federal EPA and States. We follow the inventory model for these allowances.  We record allowances expected to be consumed within one year in Materials and Supplies and allowances with expected consumption beyond one year in Other Noncurrent Assets  Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We record the consumption of allowances in the production of energy in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation on our Consolidated Statements of Income at an average cost.  We record allowances held for speculation in Current Assets  Prepayments and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We report the purchases and sales of allowances in the Operating Activities section of the Statements of Cash Flows.  We record the net margin on sales of emission allowances in Utility Operations Revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income because of its integral nature to the production process of energy and our revenue optimization strategy for our utility operations.  The net margin on sales of emission allowances affects the determination of deferred fuel costs and the amortization of regulatory assets for certain jurisdictions.
2
x
Nuclear Trust Funds
Nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel trust funds represent funds that regulatory commissions allow us to collect through rates to fund future decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal liabilities.  By rules or orders, the IURC, the MPSC and the FERC established investment limitations and general risk management guidelines.  In general, limitations include:
We maintain trust funds for each regulatory jurisdiction.  These funds are managed by external investment managers who must comply with the guidelines and rules of the applicable regulatory authorities.  The trust assets are invested to optimize the net of tax earnings of the trust giving consideration to liquidity, risk, diversification, and other prudent investment objectives.
We record securities held in these trust funds as Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We record these securities at market value.  We classify securities in the trust funds as available-for-sale due to their long-term purpose.  Other-than-temporary impairments are considered realized losses as we do not make specific investment decisions regarding the assets held in these trusts.  They reduce the cost basis of the securities which will affect any future unrealized gain or realized gains or losses.  We record unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairments from securities in these trust funds as adjustments to the regulatory liability account for the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and to regulatory assets or liabilities for the spent nuclear fuel disposal trust funds in accordance with their treatment in rates.  See Note 9 for additional discussion of nuclear matters.
Comprehensive Income
(Loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the change in equity (net assets) of a business enterprise during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from nonowner sources.  It includes all changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners.  Comprehensive income (loss) has two components: net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss).
Components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)(AOCI)
AOCI is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in our equity section.  The following table provides the components that constitute the balance sheet amount in AOCI:
Stock-Based Compensation Plans
At December 31, 2008, we had stock options, performance units, restricted shares and restricted stock units outstanding to employees under The Amended and Restated American Electric Power System Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).  This plan was last approved by shareholders in 2005.
We maintain career share accounts under the Stock Ownership Requirement Plan to facilitate executives in meeting minimum stock ownership requirements assigned to executives by the HR Committee of the Board of Directors.  Career shares are derived from vested performance units granted to employees under the LTIP.  Career shares are equal in value to shares of AEP common stock and do not become payable to executives until after their service ends.  Dividends paid on career shares are reinvested as additional career shares.
We also compensate our non-employee directors, in part, with stock units under The Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  These stock units become payable in cash to Directors after their service ends.
In addition, we maintain a variety of tax qualified and nonqualified deferred compensation plans for employees and non-employee directors that include, among other options, an investment in or an investment return equivalent to that of AEP stock.
On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values.
We recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards with service only condition granted on or after January 1, 2006 using the straight-line single-option method.  In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we granted awards with performance conditions which are expensed on the accelerated multiple-option approach.  Stock-based compensation expense recognized on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest.  Therefore, stock-based compensation expense has been reduced to reflect estimated forfeitures.  SFAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, compensation cost is included in Net Income for the performance share units, phantom stock units, restricted shares, restricted stock units and the Directors stock units.  See Note 15 for additional discussion.
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average outstanding common shares, assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive stock options and awards.
The following table presents our basic and diluted EPS calculations included on our Consolidated Statements of Income:
The assumed conversion of stock options does not affect net earnings (loss) for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share.
Options to purchase 470,016, 83,150 and 367,500 shares of common stock were outstanding at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share attributable to AEP common shareholders.  Since the options exercise prices were greater than the year-end market price of the common shares, the effect would be antidilutive.
Supplementary Information
Transmission Investments
We participate in certain joint ventures which involve transmission projects to own and operate transmission facilities.  These investments are recorded using the equity method and reported as Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Power Projects
During 2007, we sold our 50% interest in Sweeny, a nonregulated power plant with a capacity of 480 MW located in Texas.  Our 50% interest in an international power plant totaling 600 MW located in Mexico was sold in 2006 (see Dispositions section of Note 7).
We account for investments in power projects that are 50% or less owned using the equity method and report them as Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Reclassifications
Certain prior period financial statement items have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.  See FSP FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 section of Note 2 for discussion of changes in netting certain balance sheet amounts.  These reclassifications had no impact on our previously reported net income or changes in shareholders equity.  See SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements section of Note 2.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Upon issuance of final pronouncements, we review the new accounting literature to determine its relevance, if any, to our business.  The following represents a summary of final pronouncements that we have determined relate to our operations.
Pronouncements Adopted in 2008
The following standards were effective during 2008.  Consequently, the financial statements and footnotes reflect their impact.
SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157)
We partially adopted SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-1 Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13 (SFAS 157-1) which amends SFAS 157 to exclude SFAS 13 Accounting for Leases (SFAS 13) and other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements for purposes of lease classification or measurement under SFAS 13.  SFAS 157-1 was effective upon issuance and had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-2 Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (SFAS 157-2) which delays the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually).  We adopted SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2009 for items within the scope of SFAS 157-2.  The adoption of SFAS 157-2 had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-3 Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active which clarifies application of SFAS 157 in markets that are not active and provides an illustrative example.  The FSP was effective upon issuance.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements.
See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements Section of Note 11 for further information.
SFAS 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159)
The FASB permitted entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  The standard also established presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparison between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities.  If the fair value option is elected, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value is reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.  The statement is applied prospectively upon adoption.
We adopted SFAS 159 effective January 1, 2008.  At adoption, we did not elect the fair value option for any assets or liabilities.
SFAS 162 The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS 162)
In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 162, clarifying the sources of generally accepted accounting principles in descending order of authority.  The statement specifies that the reporting entity, not its auditors, is responsible for its compliance with GAAP.
We adopted SFAS 162 in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements.
EITF Issue No. 06-10 Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements
(EITF 06-10)
In March 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-10, a consensus on
collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements in which an employee owns and controls the insurance policy.  Under EITF 06-10, an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if the employer agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employee's retirement or to provide the employee with a death benefit based on a substantive arrangement with the employee.  In addition, an employer should recognize and measure an asset based on the nature and substance of the collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement.  EITF 06-10 requires recognition of the effects of its application as either (a) a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings or other components of equity or net assets in the statement of financial position at the beginning of the year of adoption or (b) retrospective application to all prior periods.  We adopted EITF 06-10 effective January 1, 2008 with a cumulative effect reduction of $16 million ($10 million, net of tax) to beginning retained earnings.
EITF Issue No. 06-11 Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards
(EITF 06-11)
In June 2007, the FASB addressed the recognition of income tax benefits of dividends on employee share-based compensation.  Under EITF 06-11, a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and are paid to employees for equity-classified nonvested equity shares, nonvested equity share units and outstanding equity share options should be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital.
We adopted EITF 06-11 effective January 1, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
 
FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment
of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of
FASB Statement No. 161 (FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4)
 
In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 amending SFAS 133 and FIN 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. Under the SFAS 133 requirements, the seller of a credit derivative shall disclose the following information for each derivative, including credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument, even if the likelihood of payment is remote:
Further, the standard requires the disclosure of current payment status/performance risk of all FIN 45 guarantees.  In the event an entity uses internal groupings, the entity shall disclose how those groupings are determined and used for managing risk.
We adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements but increased our guarantees disclosures in Note 6.
 
FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities (FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8)
 
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 amending SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and FIN 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  Under the requirements, the transferor of financial assets in the securitization or asset-backed financing arrangement must disclose the following:
The FIN 46R amendments contain disclosure requirements for a public enterprise that (a) is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE), (b) holds a significant variable interest in a VIE but is not the primary beneficiary or (c) is a sponsor that holds a variable interest in a VIE. The principle objectives of the disclosures required by this standard are to provide financial statement users an understanding of:
We adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements but increased our footnote disclosures for variable interest entities.  See Principles of Consolidation section of Note 1.
FSP FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 (FSP FIN 39-1)
In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1 amending FIN 39 Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts by replacing the interpretations definition of contracts with the definition of derivative instruments per SFAS 133.  The amendment requires entities that offset fair values of derivatives with the same party under a netting agreement to net the fair values (or approximate fair values) of related cash collateral.  The entities must disclose whether or not they offset fair values of derivatives and related cash collateral and amounts recognized for cash collateral payables and receivables at the end of each reporting period.
We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2008.  This standard changed our method of netting certain balance sheet amounts and reduced assets and liabilities.  It requires retrospective application as a change in accounting principle.  Consequently, we reclassified the following amounts on the December 31, 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet as shown:
For certain risk management contracts, we are required to post or receive cash collateral based on third party contractual agreements and risk profiles.  For the December 31, 2008 balance sheet, we netted $11 million of cash collateral received from third parties against short-term and long-term risk management assets and $43 million of cash collateral paid to third parties against short-term and long-term risk management liabilities.
Pronouncements Adopted During The First Quarter of 2009
The following standards are effective during the first quarter of 2009.  Consequently, their impact will be reflected in the first quarter of 2009 financial statements when filed.  The following paragraphs discuss their expected impact on future financial statement and footnote disclosures.
SFAS 141 (revised 2007) Business Combinations (SFAS 141R)
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R, improving financial reporting about business combinations and their effects.  It established how the acquiring entity recognizes and measures the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, goodwill acquired, any gain on bargain purchases and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity.  SFAS 141R no longer allows acquisition-related costs to be included in the cost of the business combination, but rather expensed in the periods they are incurred, with the exception of the costs to issue debt or equity securities which shall be recognized in accordance with other applicable GAAP.  The standard requires disclosure of information for a business combination that occurs during the accounting period or prior to the issuance of the financial statements for the accounting period.  SFAS 141R can affect tax positions on previous acquisitions.  We do not have any such tax positions that result in adjustments.
We adopted SFAS 141R effective January 1, 2009.  It is effective prospectively for business combinations with an acquisition date on or after January 1, 2009.  We will apply it to any future business combinations.
SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160)
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160, modifying reporting for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in consolidated financial statements.  The statement requires noncontrolling interest be reported in equity and establishes a new framework for recognizing net income or loss and comprehensive income by the controlling interest.  Upon deconsolidation due to loss of control over a subsidiary, the standard requires a fair value remeasurement of any remaining noncontrolling equity investment to be used to properly recognize the gain or loss.  SFAS 160 requires specific disclosures regarding changes in equity interest of both the controlling and noncontrolling parties and presentation of the noncontrolling equity balance and income or loss for all periods presented.
We have retrospectively adopted SFAS 160.  The impact of the retrospective application of this standard is as follows:
 
In addition, we adjusted references to these items in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements.
 
SFAS 161 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 161)
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, enhancing disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  Affected entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how an entity accounts for derivative instruments and related hedged items and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.  The standard requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation.
We adopted SFAS 161 effective January 1, 2009.  This standard will increase our disclosure requirements related to derivative instruments and hedging activities in future reports.
In September 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on liabilities with third-party credit enhancements when the liability is measured and disclosed at fair value.  The consensus treats the liability and the credit enhancement as two units of accounting.  Under the consensus, the fair value measurement of the liability does not include the effect of the third-party credit enhancement.  Consequently, changes in the issuers credit standing without the support of the credit enhancement affect the fair value measurement of the issuers liability.  Entities will need to provide disclosures about the existence of any third-party credit enhancements related to their liabilities.  In the period of adoption, entities must disclose the valuation method(s) used to measure the fair value of liabilities within its scope and any change in the fair value measurement method that occurs as a result of its initial application.
We adopted EITF 08-5 effective January 1, 2009.  It will be applied prospectively with the effect of initial application included as a change in fair value of the liability in the period of adoption.  The adoption of this standard will impact the financial statements in the 2009 Annual Report as we report fair value of long-term debt annually.
EITF Issue No. 08-6 Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations (EITF 08-6)
In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on equity method investment accounting including initial and allocated carrying values and subsequent measurements.  It requires initial carrying value be determined using the SFAS 141R cost allocation method.  When an investee issues shares, the equity method investor should treat the transaction as if the investor sold part of its interest.
We adopted EITF 08-6 effective January 1, 2009 with no impact on our financial statements.  It was applied prospectively.
In June 2008, the FASB addressed whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and determined that the instruments need to be included in earnings allocation in computing EPS under the two-class method described in SFAS 128 Earnings per Share.
We adopted EITF 03-6-1 effective January 1, 2009.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.
FSP SFAS 142-3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (SFAS 142-3)
In April 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 142-3 amending factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.  The standard is expected to improve consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and the period of expected cash flows used to measure its fair value.
We adopted SFAS 142-3 effective January 1, 2009.  The guidance is prospectively applied to intangible assets acquired after the effective date.  The standards disclosure requirements are applied prospectively to all intangible assets as of January 1, 2009.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements.
Pronouncements Effective in the Future
The following standards will be effective in the future and their impacts disclosed at that time.
FSP SFAS 132R-1 Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP SFAS 132R-1)
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 132R-1 providing additional disclosure guidance for pension and OPEB plan assets.  The rule requires disclosure of investment policy including target allocations by investment class, investment goals, risk management policies and permitted or prohibited investments.  It specifies a minimum of investment classes by further dividing equity and debt securities by issuer grouping.  The standard adds disclosure requirements including hierarchical classes for fair value and concentration of risk.
This standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Management expects this standard to increase the disclosure requirements related to our benefit plans.  We will adopt the standard effective for the 2009 Annual Report.
Future Accounting Changes
The FASBs standard-setting process is ongoing and until new standards have been finalized and issued, we cannot determine the impact on the reporting of our operations and financial position that may result from any such future changes.  The FASB is currently working on several projects including revenue recognition, contingencies, liabilities and equity, emission allowances, earnings per share calculations, leases, insurance, hedge accounting consolidation policy, trading inventory and related tax impacts.  We also expect to see more FASB projects as a result of its desire to converge International Accounting Standards with GAAP.  The ultimate pronouncements resulting from these and future projects could have an impact on our future net income and financial position.
EXTRAORDINARY ITEM
Virginia Restructuring
In April 2007, Virginia passed legislation to reestablish regulation for retail generation and supply of electricity.  As a result, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $118 million ($79 million, net of tax) in 2007 for the reestablishment of regulatory assets and liabilities related to our Virginia retail generation and supply operations.  In 2000, we discontinued SFAS 71 regulatory accounting in our Virginia jurisdiction for retail generation and supply operations due to the passage of legislation for customer choice and deregulation.
Goodwill
The changes in our carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 by operating segment are as follows:
In the fourth quarters of 2008 and 2007, we performed our annual impairment tests.  The fair values of the operations with goodwill were estimated using cash flow projections and other market value indicators.  There were no goodwill impairment losses.
Other Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets subject to amortization were $12.8 million and $15.2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, net of accumulated amortization and are included in Deferred Charges and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The amortization life, gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by major asset class are as follows:
Amortization of intangible assets was $3 million, $4 million and $5 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Our estimated total amortization is $3 million per year for 2009 through 2010, $2 million for 2011 and $1 million per year for 2012 through 2016, when all assets will be fully amortized with no residual value.
The Advanced Royalties asset class relates to the lignite mine of DHLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SWEPCo.  In December 2008, we received an order from the LPSC that extended the useful life of the mine for an additional five years, beginning January 1, 2008, which is included in the table above and factored in the estimates noted above for future periods.
Other than goodwill, we have no intangible assets that are not subject to amortization.
Our subsidiaries are involved in rate and regulatory proceedings at the FERC and their state commissions.  This note is a discussion of rate matters and industry restructuring related proceedings that could have a material effect on net income and cash flows.
For discussion of the FERCs November 2008 order on AEPs allocation of off-system sales, see Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins section within FERC Rate Matters.
Ohio Rate Matters
Ohio Electric Security Plan Filings
In April 2008, the Ohio legislature passed Senate Bill 221, which amended the restructuring law effective July 31, 2008 and required electric utilities to adjust their rates by filing an Electric Security Plan (ESP).  Electric utilities could include a fuel cost recovery mechanism (FCR) in their ESP filing.  Electric utilities also had an option to file a Market Rate Offer (MRO) for generation pricing.  An MRO, from the date of its commencement, would have transitioned CSPCo and OPCo to full market rates no sooner than six years and no later than ten years after the PUCO approves an MRO.  The PUCO has the authority to approve and/or modify each utilitys ESP request.  The PUCO is required to approve an ESP if, in the aggregate, the ESP is more favorable to ratepayers than an MRO.  Both alternatives involve a significantly excessive earnings test (SEET) based on what public companies, including other utilities with similar risk profiles, earn on equity.
In July 2008, within the parameters of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to establish rates for 2009 through 2011.  CSPCo and OPCo did not file an optional MRO.  CSPCos and OPCos ESP filings requested an annual rate increase for 2009 through 2011 that would not exceed approximately 15% per year.  A significant portion of the requested ESP increases resulted from the implementation of a FCR that primarily includes fuel costs, purchased power costs, consumables such as urea, other variable production costs and gains and losses on sales of emission allowances.  The FCR is proposed to be phased into customer bills over the three-year period from 2009 through 2011 and recovered with a weighted average cost of capital carrying cost deferral over seven years from 2012 through 2018.  If the ESPs are approved as filed, effective with the implementation of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer fuel cost over/under-recoveries and related carrying costs, including amounts unrecovered through the phase in period, for future recovery.
In addition to the FCR, the requested ESP increases would also recover incremental carrying costs associated with environmental costs, Provider of Last Resort (POLR) charges to compensate for the risk of customers changing electric suppliers, automatic increases for distribution reliability costs and for unexpected non-fuel generation costs.  The filings also include recovery for programs for smart metering initiatives, economic development, mandated energy efficiency, renewable resources and peak demand reduction programs.
Within the ESP requests, CSPCo and OPCo would also recover existing regulatory assets of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for customer choice implementation and line extension carrying costs incurred through December 2008.  In addition, CSPCo and OPCo would recover related unrecorded equity carrying costs of $31 million and $23 million, respectively, through December 2008.  The PUCO had previously issued orders allowing deferral of these costs.  Such costs would be recovered over an 8-year period beginning January 2011.  If the PUCO does not approve recovery of these regulatory assets in this or some future proceeding, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Hearings were held in November and December 2008.  Many intervenors filed opposing testimony.  CSPCo and OPCo requested retroactive application of the new rates, including the FCR, back to the start of the January 2009 billing cycle upon approval of the ESPs.  The RSP rates were effective for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 under which CSPCo and OPCo had three annual generation rate increases of 3% and 7%, respectively.  The RSP also allowed additional annual generation rate increases of up to an average of 4% per year to recover new governmentally-mandated costs.  In January 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application requesting the PUCO to authorize deferred fuel accounting beginning January 1, 2009.  A motion to dismiss the application has been filed by Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, while the Ohio Consumers Counsel has filed comments opposing the application.  The PUCO ordered that CSPCo and OPCo continue using their current RSP rates until the PUCO issues a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the March 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  Management is unable to predict the financial statement impact of the restructuring legislation until the PUCO acts on specific proposals made by CSPCo and OPCo in their ESPs.  CSPCo and OPCo anticipate a final order from the PUCO during the first quarter of 2009.
2008 Generation Rider and Transmission Rider Rate Settlement
On January 30, 2008, the PUCO approved a settlement agreement, among CSPCo, OPCo and other parties, under the additional average 4% generation rate increase and transmission cost recovery rider (TCRR) provisions of the RSP.  The increase was due to additional governmentally-mandated costs including incremental environmental costs.  Under the settlement, the PUCO also approved recovery through the TCRR of increased PJM costs associated with transmission line losses of $39 million each for CSPCo and OPCo.  As a result, CSPCo and OPCo established regulatory assets during the first quarter of 2008 of $12 million and $14 million, respectively, related to the future recovery of increased PJM billings previously expensed from June 2007 to December 2007 for transmission line losses.  The PUCO also approved a credit applied to the TCRR of $10 million for OPCo and $8 million for CSPCo for a reduction in PJM net congestion costs.  To the extent that collections for the TCRR recoveries are under/over actual net costs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer the difference as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability and adjust future customer billings to reflect actual costs, including carrying costs on the deferral.  In addition, the PUCO approved recoveries through generation rates of environmental costs and related carrying costs of $29 million for CSPCo and $5 million for OPCo.  These RSP rate adjustments were implemented in February 2008.  The TCRR continues in CSPCos and OPCos proposed ESPs to provide for the recovery of PJM related costs.
2009 Generation Rider and Transmission Rider
In October 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application to update the TCRR.  The application requested an average decrease of 3% for CSPCo and an average increase of 7% for OPCo, including under recoveries from the prior year and related carrying charges.  Based on the requests, CSPCos annual revenues would decrease approximately $5 million and OPCos annual revenues would increase approximately $13 million.
In December 2008, the PUCO issued a final order approving the application with certain modifications.  First, the rate to calculate carrying costs will change from using a current weighted average cost of capital rate (WACC), which includes a return on equity and a gross up for income taxes, to a long-term debt rate.  CSPCos and OPCos approved long-term debt rates were 5.73% and 5.71%, respectively.  In addition, the TCRR application eliminated the fuel-related credit which had been applied against the PJM transmission marginal line loss since CSPCos and OPCos proposed fuel adjustment clause in the filing of the ESP includes this credit.  The new TCRR became effective with the January 2009 billing cycle.
Ohio IGCC Plant
In March 2005, CSPCo and OPCo filed a joint application with the PUCO seeking authority to recover costs related to building and operating a 629 MW IGCC power plant using clean-coal technology.  The application proposed three phases of cost recovery associated with the IGCC plant:  Phase 1, recovery of $24 million in pre-construction costs; Phase 2, concurrent recovery of construction-financing costs; and Phase 3, recovery or refund in distribution rates of any difference between the generation rates which may be a market-based standard service offer price for generation and the expected higher cost of operating and maintaining the plant, including a return on and return of the projected cost to construct the plant.
In June 2006, the PUCO issued an order approving a tariff to allow CSPCo and OPCo to recover Phase 1 pre-construction costs over a period of no more than twelve months effective July 1, 2006.  During that period CSPCo and OPCo each collected $12 million in pre-construction costs and incurred $11 million in pre-construction costs.  As a result, CSPCo and OPCo each established a net regulatory liability of approximately $1 million.
The order also provided that if CSPCo and OPCo have not commenced a continuous course of construction of the proposed IGCC plant within five years of the June 2006 PUCO order, all Phase 1 cost recoveries associated with items that may be utilized in projects at other sites must be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest.  The PUCO deferred ruling on cost recovery for Phases 2 and 3 pending further hearings.
In 2006, intervenors filed four separate appeals of the PUCOs order in the IGCC proceeding.  In March 2008, the Ohio Supreme Court issued its opinion affirming in part, and reversing in part the PUCOs order and remanded the matter back to the PUCO.  The Ohio Supreme Court held that while there could be an opportunity under existing law to recover a portion of the IGCC costs in distribution rates, traditional rate making procedures would apply to the recoverable portion.  The Ohio Supreme Court did not address the matter of refunding the Phase 1 cost recovery and declined to create an exception to its precedent of denying claims for refund of past recoveries from approved orders of the PUCO.  In September 2008, the Ohio Consumers Counsel filed a motion with the PUCO requesting all Phase 1 costs be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest because the Ohio Supreme Court invalidated the underlying foundation for the Phase 1 recovery.  In October 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed a motion with the PUCO that argued the Ohio Consumers Counsels motion was without legal merit and contrary to past precedent.
In January 2009, a PUCO Attorney Examiner issued an order that CSPCo and OPCo file a detailed statement outlining the status of the construction of the IGCC plant, including whether CSPCo and OPCo are engaged in a continuous course of construction on the IGCC plant.  In February 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed a statement that CSPCo and OPCo have not commenced construction of the IGCC plant and believe there exist real statutory barriers to the construction of any new base load generation in Ohio, including IGCC plants.  The statement also indicated that while construction on the IGCC plant might not begin by June 2011, changes in circumstances could result in the commencement of construction on a continuous course by that time.
As of December 2007 the estimate cost to build the IGCC plant was $2.7 billion which has continued to increase significantly.  Management continues to pursue the ultimate construction of the IGCC plant.  However, CSPCo and OPCo will not start construction of the IGCC plant until sufficient assurance of regulatory cost recovery exists.
If CSPCo and OPCo were required to refund the $24 million collected and those costs were not recoverable in another jurisdiction in connection with the construction of an IGCC plant, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.  Management cannot predict the outcome of the cost recovery litigation concerning the Ohio IGCC plant or what, if any effect, the litigation will have on future net income and cash flows.
Ormet
Effective January 1, 2007, CSPCo and OPCo began to serve Ormet, a major industrial customer with a 520 MW load, in accordance with a settlement agreement approved by the PUCO.  The settlement agreement allows for the recovery in 2007 and 2008 of the difference between the $43 per MWH Ormet pays for power and a PUCO approved market price, if higher.  The PUCO approved a $47.69 per MWH market price for 2007 and the difference was recovered through the amortization of an existing $57 million ($15 million for CSPCo and $42 million for OPCo) regulatory liability related to excess deferred state taxes resulting from the phase-out of an Ohio franchise tax recorded in 2005.  During 2007, CSPCo and OPCo each amortized $7 million of this regulatory liability to increase income.  During 2008, CSPCo and OPCo each amortized $21.5 million of this regulatory liability to income based on PUCO approved market prices.  The settlement agreement required CSPCo and OPCo to exhaust the $57 million regulatory liability.  Therefore, CSPCo reimbursed OPCo for $13.5 million of OPCos unamortized regulatory liability.  The previously approved 2007 price of $47.69 per MWH was used through November 2008 when the PUCO approved a 2008 price of $53.03 per MWH.  The additional amortization recorded in December 2008 of $11 million each for CSPCo and OPCo related to the increase in the 2008 PUCO approved market price for the period January 2008 through November 2008.  As of December 31, 2008, the regulatory liability was fully amortized.
In December 2008, CSPCo, OPCo and Ormet filed an application with the PUCO for approval of an interim arrangement governing the provision of generation service to Ormet.  The arrangement would remain in effect and expire upon the effective date of CSPCos and OPCos new ESP rates and the effective date of a new arrangement between Ormet and CSPCo/OPCo approved by the PUCO.  Under the interim arrangement, Ormet would pay the applicable generation tariff rates and riders.  CSPCo and OPCo sought to defer as a regulatory asset beginning in 2009 the difference between the PUCO approved 2008 market price and the applicable generation tariff rates and riders.  CSPCo and OPCo propose to recover the deferral through the fuel adjustment clause mechanism they proposed in the ESP proceeding.  In January 2009,  the PUCO approved the application as an interim arrangement. Although the PUCO did not address recovery in this order, it is expected to be resolved in the pending ESP proceedings.  In February 2009, an intervenor filed an application for rehearing of the PUCOs interim arrangement approval.  In February 2009, Ormet filed an application with the PUCO for approval of a proposed power contract for 2009 through 2018.  Ormet proposed that it pay varying amounts based on certain conditions, including the price of aluminum.  The difference between the amounts paid by Ormet and the otherwise applicable PUCO tariff rate would be either collected from or refunded to CSPCos and OPCos retail customers.
Hurricane Ike
In September 2008, the service territories of CSPCo and OPCo were impacted by strong winds from the remnants of Hurricane Ike.  Under the RSP, CSPCo and OPCo could seek a distribution rate adjustment to recover incremental distribution expenses related to major storm service restoration efforts.  In September 2008, CSPCo and OPCo established regulatory assets of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.  In December 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO a request to establish the regulatory assets, plus carrying costs using CSPCos and OPCos weighted average cost of capital carrying charge rates.  In December 2008, the PUCO subsequently approved the establishment of the regulatory assets but authorized CSPCo and OPCo to record a long-term debt only carrying cost on the regulatory asset.  In its order approving the deferrals, the PUCO stated that recovery would be determined in CSPCos and OPCos future filings.
In December 2008, the Consumers for Reliable Electricity in Ohio filed a request with the PUCO asking for an investigation into the service reliability of Ohios investor-owned electric utilities, including CSPCo and OPCo.  The investigation request includes the widespread outages caused by the September 2008 wind storm.  CSPCo and OPCo filed a response asking the PUCO to deny the request.
As a result of the past favorable treatment of storm restoration costs and the RSP provisions, which were in effect when the storm occurred and the filings made, management believes the recovery of the regulatory assets is probable.  However, if these regulatory assets are not recovered, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Texas Rate Matters
TEXAS RESTRUCTURING
Texas Restructuring Appeals
Pursuant to PUCT orders, TCC securitized net recoverable stranded generation costs of $2.5 billion and is recovering the principal and interest on the securitization bonds through the end of 2020.  TCC refunded net other true-up regulatory liabilities of $375 million during the period October 2006 through June 2008 via a CTC credit rate rider.  Although earnings were not affected by this CTC refund, cash flow was adversely impacted for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by $75 million, $238 million and $69 million, respectively. TCC appealed the PUCT stranded costs true-up and related orders seeking relief in both state and federal court on the grounds that certain aspects of the orders are contrary to the Texas Restructuring Legislation, PUCT rulemakings and federal law and fail to fully compensate TCC for its net stranded cost and other true-up items.  The significant items appealed by TCC were:
Municipal customers and other intervenors also appealed the PUCT true-up orders seeking to further reduce TCCs true-up recoveries.
In March 2007, the Texas District Court judge hearing the appeals of the true-up order affirmed the PUCTs April 2006 final true-up order for TCC with two significant exceptions.  The judge determined that the PUCT erred by applying an invalid rule to determine the carrying cost rate for the true-up of stranded costs and remanded this matter to the PUCT for further consideration.  The District Court judge also determined that the PUCT improperly reduced TCCs net stranded plant costs for commercial unreasonableness.
TCC, the PUCT and intervenors appealed the District Court decision to the Texas Court of Appeals.  In May 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court decision in all but two major respects.  It reversed the District Courts unfavorable decision which found that the PUCT erred by applying an invalid rule to determine the carrying cost rate.  It also determined that the PUCT erred by not reducing stranded costs by the excess earnings that had already been refunded to affiliated retail electric providers.  Management does not believe that TCC will be adversely affected by the Court of Appeals ruling on excess earning based upon the reasons discussed in the TCC Excess Earnings section below.  The favorable commercial unreasonableness judgment entered by the District Court was not reversed.  The Texas Court of Appeals denied intervenors motion for rehearing.  In May 2008, TCC, the PUCT and intervenors filed petitions for review with the Texas Supreme Court.  Review is discretionary and the Texas Supreme Court has not determined if it will grant review.
TNC received its final true-up order in May 2005 that resulted in refunds via a CTC which have been completed.  Appeals brought by intervenors and TNC of the final true-up order remain pending in state court.
Management cannot predict the outcome of these court proceedings and PUCT remand decisions.  If TCC and/or TNC ultimately succeed in its appeals, it could have a material favorable effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.  If municipal customers and other intervenors succeed in their appeals, it could have a substantial adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
TCC Deferred Investment Tax Credits and Excess Deferred Federal Income Taxes
Appeals remain outstanding related to the stranded costs true-up and related orders regarding whether the PUCT may require TCC to refund certain tax benefits to customers.  The PUCT reduced TCCs securitized stranded costs by certain tax benefits.  Subsequent to the reduction, the PUCT allowed TCC to defer $103 million of ordered CTC refunds for other true-up items to negate the securitization reduction.  Of the $103 million, $61 million relates to the present value of certain tax benefits applied to reduce the securitization stranded generating assets and $42 million relates to carrying costs.  The deferral of the CTC refunds is pending resolution on whether the PUCTs securitization refund is an IRS normalization violation.
Evidence includes a March 2008 IRS issuance of final regulations addressing the normalization requirements for the treatment of Accumulated Deferred Investment Tax Credit (ADITC) and Excess Deferred Federal Income Tax (EDFIT) in a stranded cost determination.  Consistent with a Private Letter Ruling TCC received in 2006, the regulations clearly state that TCC will sustain a normalization violation if the PUCT orders TCC to flow the tax benefits to customers as part of the stranded cost true-up.  TCC notified the PUCT that the final regulations were issued and the PUCT made its request to the court.  In May 2008, as requested by the PUCT, the Texas Court of Appeals ordered a remand of the tax normalization issue for the consideration of this additional evidence.
TCC expects that the PUCT will allow TCC to retain these amounts.  This will have a favorable effect on future net income and cash flows as TCC will be free to amortize the deferred ADITC and EDFIT tax benefits due to the sale of the generating plants that generated the tax benefits.  Since management expects that the PUCT will allow TCC to retain the deferred CTC refund amounts in order to avoid an IRS normalization violation, management has not accrued any related interest expense for refunds of these amounts.  If accrued, management estimates interest expense would have been approximately $4 million higher for the period July 2008 through December 2008 based on a CTC interest rate of 7.5%.
If the PUCT orders TCC to return the tax benefits to customers, thereby causing TCC to violate the IRS normalization regulations, it could result in TCCs repayment to the IRS, under the normalization rules, of ADITC on all property, including transmission and distribution property.  This amount approximates $103 million as of December 31, 2008.  It could also lead to a loss of TCCs right to claim accelerated tax depreciation in future tax returns.  If TCC is required to repay to the IRS its ADITC and is also required to refund ADITC to customers, it would have an unfavorable effect on future net income and cash flows.  Tax counsel advised management that a normalization violation should not occur until all remedies under law have been exhausted and the tax benefits are actually returned to ratepayers under a nonappealable order.  Management intends to continue to work with the PUCT to favorably resolve the issue and avoid the adverse effects of a normalization violation on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
TCC Excess Earnings
In 2005, a Texas appellate court issued a decision finding that a PUCT order requiring TCC to refund to the REPs excess earnings prior to and outside of the true-up process was unlawful under the Texas Restructuring Legislation.  From 2002 to 2005, TCC refunded $55 million of excess earnings, including interest, under the overturned PUCT order.  On remand, the PUCT must determine how to implement the Court of Appeals decision given that the unauthorized refunds were made to the REPs in lieu of reducing stranded cost recoveries from REPs in the True-up Proceeding.  It is possible that TCCs stranded cost recovery, which is currently on appeal, may be affected by a PUCT remedy.
In May 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals issued a decision in TCCs True-up Proceeding determining that even though excess earnings had been previously refunded to REPs, TCC still must reduce stranded cost recoveries in its True-up Proceeding.  In 2005, TCC reflected the obligation to refund excess earnings to customers through the true-up process and recorded a regulatory asset of $55 million representing a receivable from the REPs for prior excess earnings refunds made to them by TCC.  However, certain parties have taken positions that, if adopted, could result in TCC being required to refund additional amounts of excess earnings or interest through the true-up process without receiving a refund from the REPs. If this were to occur, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.  AEP sold its affiliate REPs in December 2002.  While AEP owned the affiliate REPs, TCC refunded $11 million of excess earnings to the affiliate REPs.  Management cannot predict the outcome of the excess earnings remand and whether it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
OTHER TEXAS RATE MATTERS
Hurricanes Dolly and Ike
In July and September 2008, TCCs service territory in south Texas was hit by Hurricanes Dolly and Ike, respectively.  TCC incurred $23 million and $2 million in incremental maintenance costs related to service restoration efforts for Hurricanes Dolly and Ike, respectively.  TCC has a PUCT approved catastrophe reserve which permits TCC to collect $1.3 million on an annual basis with authority to continue the collection until the catastrophe reserve reaches $13 million.  Any incremental storm-related maintenance costs can be charged against the catastrophe reserve if the total incremental maintenance costs for a storm exceed $500 thousand.  In June 2008, prior to these hurricanes, TCC had approximately $2 million recorded in the catastrophe reserve account.  Therefore, TCC established a net regulatory asset for $23 million.
Under Texas law and as previously approved by the PUCT in prior base rate cases, the regulatory asset will be included in rate base in the next base rate filing.  At that time, TCC will evaluate the existing catastrophe reserve amounts and review potential future events to determine the appropriate funding level to request to both recover the regulatory asset and fund a reserve for future storms.
ETT
In December 2007, TCC contributed $70 million of transmission facilities to ETT, an AEP joint venture accounted for using the equity method.  The PUCT approved ETT's initial rates, its request for a transfer of facilities and a certificate of convenience and necessity to operate as a stand alone transmission utility in the ERCOT region.  ETT was allowed a 9.96% after tax return on equity rate in those approvals.  In 2008, intervenors filed a notice of appeal to the Travis County District Court.  In October 2008, the court ruled that the PUCT exceeded its authority by approving ETTs application as a stand alone transmission utility without a service area under the wrong section of the statute.  Management believes that ruling is incorrect.  Moreover, ETT provided evidence in its application that ETT complied with what the court determined was the proper section of the statute.  In January 2009, ETT and the PUCT filed appeals to the Texas Court of Appeals.  As of December 31, 2008, AEPs net investment in ETT was $15 million.  In January 2009, TCC sold $60 million of transmission facilities to ETT.  See Electric Transmission Texas LLC (ETT) section of Note 7.  Depending upon the ultimate outcome of the appeals and any resulting remands, TCC may be required to reacquire transferred assets and projects under construction by ETT.
ETT, TCC and TNC are involved in transactions relating to the transfer to ETT of other transmission assets, which  are in various stages of review and approval.  In September 2008, ETT and a group of other Texas transmission providers filed a comprehensive plan with the PUCT for completion of the Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ) initiative.  The CREZ initiative is the development of 2,400 miles of new transmission lines to transport electricity from 18,000 megawatts of planned wind farm capacity in west Texas to rapidly growing cities in eastern Texas.  In January 2009, the PUCT announced its decision to authorize ETT to construct CREZ related projects.  ETT has estimated that the PUCTs decision authorizes ETT to construct $750 million to $850 million of new transmission assets.
Stall Unit
See Stall Unit section within Louisiana Rate Matters for disclosure.
Turk Plant
See Turk Plant section within Arkansas Rate Matters for disclosure.
Virginia Rate Matters
Virginia Base Rate Filing
In May 2008, APCo filed an application with the Virginia SCC to increase its base rates by $208 million on an annual basis.  The proposed revenue requirement reflected a return on equity of 11.75%.  As permitted under Virginia law, APCo implemented these new base rates, subject to refund, effective October 28, 2008.
In October 2008, APCo submitted a $168 million settlement agreement to the Virginia SCC which was accepted by most parties.  The $168 million settlement agreement revenue requirement was determined using a 10.2% return on equity and reflected the Virginia SCC staffs recommended increase as adjusted.
In November 2008, the Virginia SCC issued a final order approving the settlement agreement which increased APCos annual base revenues by $168 million.  The new authorized rates were implemented in December 2008, retroactive to October 28, 2008.  APCo made customer refunds with interest in January 2009 for the difference between the interim rates and the approved rates.
Virginia E&R Costs Recovery Filing
In May 2008, APCo filed a request with the Virginia SCC to recover $66 million of its incremental E&R costs incurred for the period of October 2006 to December 2007.  In September 2008, a settlement was reached and a stipulation agreement (stipulation) to recover $61 million of costs was submitted to the hearing examiner.  In October 2008, the Virginia SCC approved the stipulation which will have a favorable effect on 2009 cash flows of $61 million and on net income for the previously unrecognized equity carrying costs of approximately $11 million.
As of December 31, 2008, APCo has $123 million of deferred Virginia incremental E&R costs (excluding $25 million of unrecognized equity carrying costs).  The $123 million consists of $6 million of over recovery of costs collected from the 2008 surcharge, $50 million approved by the Virginia SCC related to APCos May 2008 E&R filing to be recovered in 2009, and $79 million, representing costs deferred in 2008, to be included in the 2009 E&R filing, to be collected in 2010.
If the Virginia SCC were to disallow a material portion of APCos 2008 deferral of incremental E&R costs, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Virginia Fuel Clause Filing
In July 2008, APCo initiated a fuel factor proceeding with the Virginia SCC and requested an annualized increase of $132 million effective September 1, 2008.  The increase primarily related to increases in coal costs.  In October 2008, the Virginia SCC ordered an annualized increase of $117 million based on differences in estimated future costs and inclusive of PJM transmission marginal line losses, subject to subsequent true-up to actual.
APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant
In January 2006, APCo filed a petition with the WVPSC requesting approval of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to construct a 629 MW IGCC plant adjacent to APCos existing Mountaineer Generating Station in Mason County, West Virginia.
In June 2007, APCo sought pre-approval with the WVPSC for a surcharge rate mechanism to provide for the timely recovery of pre-construction costs and the ongoing finance costs of the project during the construction period, as well as the capital costs, operating costs and a return on equity once the facility is placed into commercial operation.  In March 2008, the WVPSC granted APCo the CPCN to build the plant and approved the requested cost recovery.  In March 2008, various intervenors filed petitions with the WVPSC to reconsider the order.  No action has been taken on the requests for rehearing.
In July 2007, APCo filed a request with the Virginia SCC for a rate adjustment clause to recover initial costs associated with a proposed IGCC plant.  The filing requested recovery of an estimated $45 million over twelve months beginning January 1, 2009.  The $45 million included a return on projected CWIP and development, design and planning pre-construction costs incurred from July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009.  APCo also requested authorization to defer a carrying cost on deferred pre-construction costs incurred beginning July 1, 2007 until such costs are recovered.
The Virginia SCC issued an order in April 2008 denying APCos requests, in part, upon its finding that the estimated cost of the plant was uncertain and may escalate.  The Virginia SCC also expressed concern that the $2.2 billion estimated cost did not include a retrofitting of carbon capture and sequestration facilities.  In July 2008, based on the unfavorable order received in Virginia, the WVPSC issued a notice seeking comments from parties on how the WVPSC should proceed.  Comments were filed by various parties, including APCo, but the WVPSC has not taken any action.
Through December 31, 2008, APCo deferred for future recovery pre-construction IGCC costs of approximately $9 million applicable to the West Virginia jurisdiction, approximately $2 million applicable to the FERC jurisdiction and approximately $9 million allocated to the Virginia jurisdiction.
In July 2008, the IRS allocated $134 million in future tax credits to APCo for the planned IGCC plant contingent upon the commencement of construction, qualifying expense being incurred and certification of the IGCC plant prior to July 2010.
Although management continues to pursue the construction of the IGCC plant, APCo will not start construction of the IGCC plant until sufficient assurance of cost recovery exists.  If the plant is cancelled, APCo plans to seek recovery of its prudently incurred deferred pre-construction costs.  If the plant is cancelled and if the deferred costs are not recoverable, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project
In January 2008, APCo and ALSTOM Power Inc. (Alstom), an unrelated third party, entered into an agreement to jointly construct a CO capture demonstration facility.  APCo and Alstom will each own part of the CO capture facility.  APCo will also construct and own the necessary facilities to store the CO.  RWE AG, a German electric power and natural gas public utility, is participating in the evaluation of the commercial and technical feasibility of taking captured CO from the flue gas stream and storing it in deep geologic formations.  APCos estimated cost for its share of the facilities is $76 million.  Through December 31, 2008, APCo incurred $29 million in capitalized project costs which are included in Regulatory Assets.  APCo is earning a return on the capitalized project costs incurred through June 30, 2008, as a result of the base rate case settlement approved by the Virginia SCC in November 2008.  See the Virginia Base Rate Filing section above.  APCo plans to seek recovery for the CO capture and storage project costs in its next Virginia and West Virginia base rate filings which are expected to be filed in 2009.  If a significant portion of the deferred project costs are excluded from base rates and ultimately disallowed in future Virginia or West Virginia rate proceedings, it could have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
2
2
2
2
2
West Virginia Rate Matters
APCos and WPCos 2008 Expanded Net Energy Cost (ENEC) Filing
In February 2008, APCo and WPCo filed with the WVPSC for an increase of approximately $156 million including a $135 million increase in the ENEC, a $17 million increase in construction cost surcharges and $4 million of reliability expenditures, to become effective July 2008.  In June 2008, the WVPSC issued an order approving a joint stipulation and settlement agreement granting rate increases, effective July 2008, of approximately $106 million based on differences in estimated future costs, including an $88 million increase in the ENEC, a $14 million increase in construction cost surcharges and $4 million of reliability expenditures.  The ENEC is an expanded form of a fuel clause mechanism, which includes all energy-related costs including fuel, purchased power expenses, off-system sales credits, PJM costs associated with transmission line losses due to the implementation by PJM transmission marginal line loss pricing and other energy/transmission items.
The ENEC and reliability surcharges are subject to a true-up to actual costs.  Therefore, there should be no earnings effect if actual costs exceed the recoveries due to the deferral of any under-recovery of costs.  The construction cost is not subject to a true-up to actual costs and could impact future net income and cash flows if actual costs exceed the amounts approved for recovery.
APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant
See APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant section within Virginia Rate Matters for disclosure.
Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project
See Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project section within Virginia Rate Matters for disclosure.
Indiana Rate Matters
Indiana Base Rate Filing
In a January 2008 filing with the IURC, updated in the second quarter of 2008, I&M requested an increase in its Indiana base rates of $80 million including a return on equity of 11.5%.  The base rate increase included a $69 million annual reduction in depreciation expense previously approved by the IURC and implemented for accounting purposes effective June 2007.  The filing also requested trackers for certain variable components of the cost of service including recently increased PJM costs associated with transmission line losses due to the implementation of PJM transmission marginal line loss pricing and other RTO costs, reliability enhancement costs, demand side management/energy efficiency costs, off-system sales margins and environmental compliance costs.  The trackers would initially increase annual revenues by an additional $45 million.  I&M proposes to share with customers, through a proposed tracker, 50% of off-system sales margins initially estimated to be $96 million annually with a guaranteed credit to customers of $20 million.
In December 2008, I&M and all of the intervenors jointly filed a settlement agreement with the IURC proposing to resolve all of the issues in the case.  The settlement agreement included a $22 million increase in revenue from base rates with an authorized return on equity of 10.5% and a $22 million initial increase in tracker revenue.  The agreement also establishes an off-system sales sharing mechanism and trackers for PJM, net emission allowance, and DSM costs, among other provisions which include continued funding for the eventual decommissioning of the Cook Nuclear Plant.  I&M anticipates a final order from the IURC during the first quarter of 2009.
Rockport and Tanners Creek
 
In January 2009, I&M filed a petition with the IURC requesting approval of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to use advanced coal technology which would allow I&M to reduce airborne emissions of NO and mercury from existing coal-fired steam electric generating units at the Rockport and Tanners Creek Plants.  In addition, the petition is requesting approval to construct and recover the costs of selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) systems at the Tanners Creek plant and to recover the costs of activated carbon injection (ACI) systems on both generating units at the Rockport plant.  I&M is requesting to depreciate the ACI systems over a period of 10 years and the SNCR systems over the remaining useful life of the Tanners Creek generating units.  I&M requested the IURC to approve a rate adjustment mechanism of unrecovered carrying costs during construction and a return on investment, depreciation expense and operation and maintenance costs, including consumables and new emission allowance costs, once the projects are placed in service.  I&M also requested the IURC to authorize deferral of costs and carrying costs until such costs are recognized in the rate adjustment mechanism.  The IURC has not issued a procedural schedule at this time for this petition.Management is unable to predict the outcome of this petition.
x
 
Indiana Fuel Clause Filing
In January 2009, I&M filed with the IURC an application to increase its fuel adjustment charge by approximately $53 million for April through September 2009.  The filing included an under-recovery for the period ended November 2008, mainly as a result of the extended outage of the Cook Unit 1 due to damage to the main turbine and generator and increased coal prices, and a projection for the future period of fuel costs including Cook Unit 1 replacement power fuel clause costs.  The filing also included an adjustment to reduce the incremental fuel cost of replacement power with a portion of the insurance proceeds from the Cook Unit 1 accidental outage policy.  See Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown section within the Commitment, Guarantees and Contingencies footnote for further details.  I&M reached an agreement in February 2009 with intervenors to collect the under-recovery over twelve months instead of over six months as proposed.  Under the agreement, the fuel factor will go into effect subject to refund and a subdocket will be established to consider issues relating to the Cook Unit 1 outage and I&Ms fuel procurement practices.  A decision from the IURC is still pending.
Michigan Rate Matters
Michigan Restructuring
Although customer choice commenced for I&Ms Michigan customers on January 1, 2002, I&Ms rates for generation in Michigan continued to be cost-based regulated because none of I&M's customers elected to change suppliers and no alternative electric suppliers were registered to compete in I&M's Michigan service territory.  In October 2008, the Governor of Michigan signed legislation to limit customer choice load to no more than 10% of the annual retail load for the preceding calendar year and to require the remaining 90% of annual retail load to be phased into cost-based rates.  The new legislation also requires utilities to meet certain energy efficiency and renewable portfolio standards and permits cost recovery of meeting those standards.  Management continues to conclude that I&M's rates for generation in Michigan are cost-based regulated and that I&M can practice regulatory accounting.
Kentucky Rate Matters
2008 Fuel Cost Reconciliation
In January 2008, KPCo filed its semi-annual fuel cost reconciliation covering the period May 2007 through October 2007.  As part of this filing, KPCo sought recovery of incremental costs associated with transmission line losses billed by PJM since June 2007 due to PJMs implementation of PJM transmission marginal line loss pricing.  KPCo expensed these incremental PJM costs associated with transmission line losses pending a determination that they are recoverable through the Kentucky fuel clause.  In June 2008, the KPSC issued an order approving KPCos semi-annual fuel cost reconciliation filing and recovery of incremental costs associated with transmission line losses billed by PJM.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, KPCo recorded $20 million of income and the related Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs for transmission line losses incurred from June 2007 through December 2008 of which $7 million related to 2007.
Oklahoma Rate Matters
PSO Fuel and Purchased Power
2006 and Prior Fuel and Purchased Power
Proceedings addressing PSOs historic fuel costs through 2006 remain open at the OCC due to the issue of the allocation of off-system sales margins among the AEP operating companies in accordance with a FERC-approved allocation agreement.  For further discussion and estimated effect on net income see Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins section within FERC Rate Matters.
In 2002, PSO under-recovered $42 million of fuel costs resulting from a reallocation among AEP West companies of purchased power costs for periods prior to 2002.  PSO recovered the $42 million during the period June 2007 through May 2008.  In June 2008, the Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers (OIEC) appealed an ALJ recommendation that allowed PSO to retain the $42 million from ratepayers.  The OIEC requested that PSO be required to refund the $42 million through its fuel clause.  In August 2008, the OCC heard the OIEC appeal and a decision is pending.
2007 Fuel and Purchased Power
In September 2008, the OCC initiated a review of PSOs generation, purchased power and fuel procurement processes and costs for 2007.  Management cannot predict the outcome of the pending fuel and purchased power cost recovery filings.  However, PSO believes its fuel and purchased power procurement practices and costs were prudent and properly incurred and therefore are legally recoverable.
Red Rock Generating Facility
In July 2006, PSO announced an agreement with Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company (OG&E) to build a 950 MW pulverized coal ultra-supercritical generating unit.  PSO would have owned 50% of the new unit.  OG&E and PSO requested pre-approval to construct the coal-fired Red Rock Generating Facility (Red Rock) and to implement a recovery rider.
In October 2007, the OCC issued a final order approving PSOs need for 450 MWs of additional capacity by the year 2012, but rejected the ALJs recommendation and denied PSOs and OG&Es applications for construction pre-approval.  The OCC stated that PSO failed to fully study other alternatives to a coal-fired plant.  Since PSO and OG&E could not obtain pre-approval to build Red Rock, PSO and OG&E cancelled the third party construction contract and their joint venture development contract.
In December 2007, PSO filed an application at the OCC requesting recovery of $21 million in pre-construction costs and contract cancellation fees associated with Red Rock.  In March 2008, PSO and all other parties in this docket signed a settlement agreement that provided for recovery of $11 million of Red Rock pre-construction costs and carrying costs at PSOs AFUDC rate beginning in March 2008 and continuing until the $11 million is included in base rates in PSOs next base rate case.  PSO will recover the costs over the expected life of the peaking facilities at the Southwestern Station, and include the costs in rate base in its next base rate filing.  The OCC approved the settlement in May 2008.  As a result of the settlement, PSO wrote off $10 million of its deferred pre-construction costs/cancellation fees in the first quarter of 2008.  The remaining balance of $11 million was recorded as a regulatory asset.  In July 2008, PSO filed a base rate case which included $11 million of deferred Red Rock costs plus carrying charges at PSOs AFUDC rate beginning in March 2008.  In January 2009, the OCC approved the base rate case.  See 2008 Oklahoma Base Rate Filing section below.
Oklahoma 2007 Ice Storms
In January and December 2007, PSO incurred maintenance expenses for two large ice storms.  Prior to December 2007, PSO filed with the OCC requesting recovery of the maintenance expenses related to the January 2007 service restoration efforts.  PSO proposed in its application to establish a regulatory asset to defer the previously expensed ice storm restoration costs and to offset the regulatory asset with gains from the sale of excess SO emission allowances.
2
In February 2008, PSO entered into a settlement agreement for recovery of ice storm restoration costs from both ice storms.  In March 2008, the OCC approved the settlement agreement subject to a final audit.  Therefore, in March 2008, PSO recorded a regulatory asset for the previously expensed ice storm maintenance costs.  In October 2008, PSO received final approval to recover $74 million of ice storm costs.  PSO has applied and will continue to apply proceeds from sale of excess SO emission allowances to reduce the regulatory asset.  The estimated net balance that is not recovered from the sale of emission allowances will be amortized and recovered through a rider over a period of five years which began in November 2008.  The rider will ultimately be trued-up to recover the entire $74 million regulatory asset.  The regulatory asset earns a return of 10.92% until fully recovered.
2
2008 Oklahoma Base Rate Filing
In July 2008, PSO filed an application with the OCC to increase its base rates by $133 million (later adjusted to $127 million) on an annual basis.  PSO has been recovering costs related to new peaking units recently placed into service through a Generation Cost Recovery Rider (GCRR).  Subsequent to implementation of the new base rates, the GCRR will terminate and PSO will recover these costs through the new base rates.  Therefore, PSOs net annual requested increase in total revenues was actually $117 million (later adjusted to $111 million).  The proposed revenue requirement reflected a return on equity of 11.25%.
In January 2009, the OCC issued a final order approving an $81 million increase in PSOs non-fuel base revenues and a 10.5% return on equity.  The rate increase includes a $59 million increase in base rates and a $22 million increase for costs to be recovered through riders outside of base rates.  The $22 million increase includes $14 million for purchase power capacity costs and $8 million for the recovery of carrying costs associated with PSOs program to convert overhead distribution lines to underground service.  The $8 million recovery of carrying costs associated with the overhead to underground conversion program will occur only if PSO makes the required capital expenditures.  The final order approved lower depreciation rates and also provides for the deferral of $6 million of generation maintenance expenses to be recovered over a six-year period.  This deferral will be recorded in the first quarter of 2009.  Additional deferrals were approved for distribution storm costs above or below the amount included in base rates and for certain transmission reliability expenses.  The new rates reflecting the final order were implemented with the first billing cycle of February 2009.
In January 2009, PSO and one intervenor filed motions with the OCC to modify its final order.  PSO filed an appeal with the Oklahoma Supreme Court challenging an adjustment the OCC made on prepaid pension funding contained within the OCC final order.  The OCC subsequently declined to consider the motions to modify.  In February 2009, the Oklahoma Attorney General and several intervenors also filed appeals with the Oklahoma Supreme Court raising several issues.  If the Attorney General and/or the intervenors Supreme Court appeals are successful, it could have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Louisiana Rate Matters
Louisiana Compliance Filing
In connection with SWEPCos merger related compliance filings, the LPSC approved a settlement agreement in April 2008 that prospectively resolves all issues regarding claims that SWEPCo had over-earned its allowed return.  SWEPCo agreed to a formula rate plan (FRP) with a three-year term.  Under the plan, beginning in August 2008, rates shall be established to allow SWEPCo to earn an adjusted return on common equity of 10.565%.  The adjustments are standard Louisiana rate filing adjustments.
If in the second and third year of the FRP, the adjusted earned return is within the range of 10.015% to 11.115%, no adjustment to rates is necessary.  However, if the adjusted earned return is outside of the above-specified range, an FRP rider will be established to increase or decrease rates prospectively.  If the adjusted earned return is less than 10.015%, SWEPCo will prospectively increase rates to collect 60% of the difference between 10.565% and the adjusted earned return.  Alternatively, if the adjusted earned return is more than 11.115%, SWEPCo will prospectively decrease rates by 60% of the difference between the adjusted earned return and 10.565%.  SWEPCo will not record over/under recovery deferrals for refund or future recovery under this FRP.
The settlement provides for a separate credit rider decreasing Louisiana retail base rates by $5 million prospectively over the entire three-year term of the FRP, which shall not affect the adjusted earned return in the FRP calculation.  This separate credit rider will cease effective August 2011.
In addition, the settlement provides for a reduction in generation depreciation rates effective October 2007.  SWEPCo deferred as a regulatory liability the effects of the expected depreciation reduction through July 2008.  SWEPCo will amortize this regulatory liability over the three-year term of the FRP as a reduction to the cost of service used to determine the adjusted earned return.
In April 2008, SWEPCo filed the first FRP which would increase its annual Louisiana retail rates by $11 million in August 2008 to earn an adjusted return on common equity of 10.565%.  In accordance with the settlement, SWEPCo recorded a $4 million regulatory liability related to the reduction in generation depreciation rates.  The amount of the unamortized regulatory liability for the reduction in generation depreciation was $3 million as of December 31, 2008.  In August 2008, the LPSC approved the settlement and SWEPCo implemented the FRP rates, subject to refund.  No provision for refund has been recorded as SWEPCo believes that the rates as implemented are in compliance with the settlement.
Stall Unit
In May 2006, SWEPCo announced plans to build a new intermediate load, 500 MW, natural gas-fired, combustion turbine, combined cycle generating unit (the Stall Unit) at its existing Arsenal Hill Plant location in Shreveport, Louisiana.  SWEPCo submitted the appropriate filings to the PUCT, the APSC, the LPSC and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality to seek approvals to construct the unit.  The Stall Unit is currently estimated to cost $384 million, excluding AFUDC, and is expected to be in-service in mid-2010.  The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality issued an air permit for the Stall unit in March 2008.
In March 2007, the PUCT approved SWEPCos request for a certificate for the facility based on a prior cost estimate.  In July 2008, a Louisiana ALJ issued a recommendation that SWEPCo be authorized to construct, own and operate the Stall Unit and recommended that costs be capped at $445 million (excluding transmission).  In October 2008, the LPSC issued a final order effectively approving the ALJ recommendation.  In December 2008, SWEPCo submitted an amended filing seeking approval from the APSC to construct the unit.  The APSC has established a procedural schedule with a public hearing for April 2009.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Stall Unit, SWEPCo would seek recovery of the capitalized construction costs including any cancellation fees.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized construction costs of $252 million (including AFUDC) and has contractual construction commitments of an additional $99 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, cancellation fees of $33 million would have been required in order to terminate the construction commitments.  If SWEPCo cancels the plant and cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Turk Plant
See Turk Plant section within Arkansas Rate Matters for disclosure.
Arkansas Rate Matters
Turk Plant
In August 2006, SWEPCo announced plans to build the Turk Plant, a new base load 600 MW pulverized coal ultra-supercritical generating unit in Arkansas.  SWEPCo submitted filings with the APSC, the PUCT and the LPSC seeking certification of the plant.  SWEPCo will own 73% of the Turk Plant and will operate the facility.  During 2007, SWEPCo signed joint ownership agreements with the Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority (OMPA), the Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation (AECC) and the East Texas Electric Cooperative (ETEC) for the remaining 27% of the Turk Plant.  The Turk Plant is currently estimated to cost $1.6 billion, excluding AFUDC, with SWEPCos portion estimated to cost $1.2 billion.  If approved on a timely basis, the plant is expected to be in-service in 2012.
In November 2007, the APSC granted approval to build the Turk Plant.  Certain landowners filed a notice of appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals.  In March 2008, the LPSC approved the application to construct the Turk Plant.
In August 2008, the PUCT issued an order approving the Turk Plant with the following four conditions: (a) the capping of capital costs for the Turk Plant at the previously estimated $1.522 billion projected construction cost, excluding AFUDC, (b) capping CO emission costs at $28 per ton through the year 2030, (c) holding Texas ratepayers financially harmless from any adverse impact related to the Turk Plant not being fully subscribed to by other utilities or wholesale customers and (d) providing the PUCT all updates, studies, reviews, reports and analyses as previously required under the Louisiana and Arkansas orders.  In October 2008, SWEPCo appealed the PUCTs order regarding the two cost cap restrictions.  If the cost cap restrictions are upheld and construction or emissions costs exceed the restrictions, it could have a material adverse impact on future net income and cash flows.  In October 2008, an intervenor filed an appeal contending that the PUCTs grant of a conditional Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the Turk Plant was not necessary to serve retail customers.
2
 
A request to stop pre-construction activities at the site was filed in federal court by Arkansas landowners.  In July 2008, the federal court denied the request and the Arkansas landowners appealed the denial to the U.S. Court of Appeals.
In November 2008, SWEPCo received the air permit approval from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality and commenced construction.  In December 2008, Arkansas landowners filed an appeal with the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission (APCEC) which caused construction of the Turk Plant to halt until the APCEC took further action.  In December 2008, SWEPCo filed a request with the APCEC to continue construction of the Turk Plant and the APCEC ruled to allow construction to continue while an appeal of the Turk Plants permit is heard.  SWEPCo is also working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the approval of a wetlands and stream impact permit.
In January 2008 and July 2008, SWEPCo filed Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need (CECPN) applications with the APSC to construct transmission lines necessary for service from the Turk Plant.  Several landowners filed for intervention status and one landowner also contended he should be permitted to re-litigate Turk Plant issues, including the need for the generation.  The APSC granted their intervention but denied the request to re-litigate the Turk Plant issues.  In June 2008, the landowner filed an appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals requesting to re-litigate Turk Plant issues.  SWEPCo responded and the appeal was dismissed.  In January 2009, the APSC approved the CECPN applications.
The Arkansas Governors Commission on Global Warming issued its final report to the Governor in October 2008.  The Commission was established to set a global warming pollution reduction goal together with a strategic plan for implementation in Arkansas.  The Commissions final report included a recommendation that the Turk Plant employ post combustion carbon capture and storage measures as soon as it starts operating.  If legislation is passed as a result of the findings in the Commissions report, it could impact SWEPCos proposal to build the Turk Plant.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Turk Plant, SWEPCo could incur significant cancellation fees to terminate its commitments and would be responsible to reimburse OMPA, AECC and ETEC for their share of paid costs.  If that occurred, SWEPCo would seek recovery of its capitalized costs including any cancellation fees and joint owner reimbursements.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized approximately $510 million of expenditures (including AFUDC) and has significant contractual construction commitments for an additional $727 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, SWEPCo would have incurred cancellation fees of $61 million.  If the Turk Plant does not receive all necessary approvals on reasonable terms and SWEPCo cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Arkansas Base Rate Filing
In February 2009, SWEPCo filed an application with the APSC for a base rate increase of $25 million based on a requested return on equity of 11.5%.  SWEPCo also requested a separate rider to concurrently recover financing costs related to the Stall and Turk generation plants that are currently under construction.  A decision is not expected until the fourth quarter of 2009 or the first quarter of 2010.
Stall Unit
See Stall Unit section within Louisiana Rate Matters for disclosure.
FERC Rate Matters
Regional Transmission Rate Proceedings at the FERC
SECA Revenue Subject to Refund
Effective December 1, 2004, AEP eliminated transaction-based through-and-out transmission service (T&O) charges in accordance with FERC orders and collected at FERCs direction load-based charges, referred to as RTO SECA, to partially mitigate the loss of T&O revenues on a temporary basis through March 31, 2006.  Intervenors objected to the temporary SECA rates, raising various issues.  As a result, the FERC set SECA rate issues for hearing and ordered that the SECA rate revenues be collected, subject to refund.  The AEP East companies paid SECA rates to other utilities at considerably lesser amounts than they collected.  If a refund is ordered, the AEP East companies would also receive refunds related to the SECA rates they paid to third parties.  The AEP East companies recognized gross SECA revenues of $220 million from December 2004 through March 2006 when the SECA rates terminated leaving the AEP East companies and ultimately their internal load retail customers to make up the short fall in revenues.
In August 2006, a FERC ALJ issued an initial decision, finding that the rate design for the recovery of SECA charges was flawed and that a large portion of the lost revenues reflected in the SECA rates should not have been recoverable.  The ALJ found that the SECA rates charged were unfair, unjust and discriminatory and that new compliance filings and refunds should be made.  The ALJ also found that the unpaid SECA rates must be paid in the recommended reduced amount.
In September 2006, AEP filed briefs jointly with other affected companies noting exceptions to the ALJs initial decision and asking the FERC to reverse the decision in large part.  Management believes, based on advice of legal counsel, that the FERC should reject the ALJs initial decision because it contradicts prior related FERC decisions, which are presently subject to rehearing.  Furthermore, management believes the ALJs findings on key issues are largely without merit.  AEP and SECA ratepayers have engaged in settlement discussions in an effort to settle the SECA issue.  However, if the ALJs initial decision is upheld in its entirety, it could result in a disallowance of a large portion on any unsettled SECA revenues.
Based on anticipated settlements, the AEP East companies provided reserves for net refunds for current and future SECA settlements totaling $39 million and $5 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, applicable to a total of $220 million of SECA revenues.  In December 2008, an additional settlement agreement was approved by the FERC resulting in the completion of a $2 million settlement applicable to $17 million of SECA revenue.  Including this most recent settlement, AEP has completed settlements totaling $9 million applicable to $92 million of SECA revenues.  The balance in the reserve for future settlements as of December 2008 was $35 million.  In-process settlements total $1 million applicable to $20 million of SECA revenues.  In February 2009, the FERC approved the in-process settlements resulting in the completion of a $1 million settlement application to $20 million of SECA revenues.
If the FERC adopts the ALJs decision and/or AEP cannot settle all of the remaining unsettled claims within the remaining amount reserved for refund, it will have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.  Based on advice of external FERC counsel, recent settlement experience and the expectation that most of the unsettled SECA revenues will be settled, management believes that the available reserve of $34 million is adequate to settle the remaining $108 million of contested SECA revenues.  However, management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of ongoing settlement discussions or future FERC proceedings or court appeals, if any.
The FERC PJM Regional Transmission Rate Proceeding
With the elimination of T&O rates, the expiration of SECA rates and after considerable administrative litigation at the FERC in which AEP sought to mitigate the effect of the T&O rate elimination, the FERC failed to implement a regional rate in PJM.  As a result, the AEP East companies retail customers incur the bulk of the cost of the existing AEP east transmission zone facilities.  However, the FERC ruled that the cost of any new 500 kV and higher voltage transmission facilities built in PJM would be shared by all customers in the region.  It is expected that most of the new 500 kV and higher voltage transmission facilities will be built in other zones of PJM, not AEPs zone.  The AEP East companies will need to obtain regulatory approvals for recovery of any costs of new facilities that are assigned to them by PJM.  In February 2008, AEP filed a Petition for Review of the FERC orders in this case in the United States Court of Appeals.  Management cannot estimate at this time what effect, if any, this order will have on the AEP East companies future construction of new transmission facilities, net income and cash flows.
The AEP East companies filed for and in 2006 obtained increases in their wholesale transmission rates to recover lost revenues previously applied to reduce those rates.  AEP has also sought and received retail rate increases in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky.  As a result, AEP is now recovering approximately 80% of the lost T&O transmission revenues.  The remaining 20% is being incurred by AEP until it can revise its rates in Indiana and Michigan to recover these lost revenues.  AEP received net SECA transmission revenues of $128 million in 2005.  I&M requested recovery of its portion of these lost revenues in its Indiana rate filing in January 2008 but does not expect to commence recovering the new rates until early 2009.  Future net income and cash flows will continue to be adversely affected in Indiana and Michigan until the remaining 20% of the lost T&O transmission revenues are recovered in retail rates.
The FERC PJM and MISO Regional Transmission Rate Proceeding
In the SECA proceedings, the FERC ordered the RTOs and transmission owners in the PJM/MISO region (the Super Region) to file, by August 1, 2007, a proposal to establish a permanent transmission rate design for the Super Region to be effective February 1, 2008.  All of the transmission owners in PJM and MISO, with the exception of AEP and one MISO transmission owner, elected to support continuation of zonal rates in both RTOs.  In September 2007, AEP filed a formal complaint proposing a highway/byway rate design be implemented for the Super Region where users pay based on their use of the transmission system.  AEP argued the use of other PJM and MISO facilities by AEP is not as large as the use of AEP transmission by others in PJM and MISO.  Therefore, a regional rate design change is required to recognize that the provision and use of transmission service in the Super Region is not sufficiently uniform between transmission owners and users to justify zonal rates.  In January 2008, the FERC denied AEPs complaint.  AEP filed a rehearing request with the FERC in March 2008.  In December 2008, the FERC denied AEPs request for rehearing.  In February 2009, AEP filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals.  If the court appeal is successful, earnings could benefit for a certain period of time due to regulatory lag until the AEP East companies reduce future retail revenues in their next fuel or base rate proceedings.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this case.
PJM Transmission Formula Rate Filing
In July 2008, AEP filed an application with the FERC to increase its rates for wholesale transmission service within PJM by $63 million annually.  The filing seeks to implement a formula rate allowing annual adjustments reflecting future changes in AEP's cost of service.  The requested increase would result in a combined increase in annual revenues for the AEP East companies of approximately $9 million from nonaffiliated customers within PJM.  The remaining $54 million requested would be billed to the AEP East companies but would be offset by compensation from PJM for use of AEPs transmission facilities so that retail rates for jurisdictions other than Ohio are not affected.  Retail rates for CSPCo and OPCo would be increased through the Transmission Cost Recovery Rider (TCRR) totaling approximately $10 million and $12 million, respectively.  The TCRR includes a true-up mechanism so CSPCos and OPCos net income will not be adversely affected by a FERC ordered transmission rate increase.  AEP requested an effective date of October 1, 2008.  In September 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting AEPs proposed formula rate, subject to a compliance filing, suspended the effective date until March 1, 2009 and established a settlement proceeding with an ALJ.  In October 2008, AEP began settlement discussions and filed the required compliance filing.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this filing.
Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins
In August 2008, the OCC filed a complaint at the FERC alleging that AEP inappropriately allocated off-system sales margins between the AEP East companies and the AEP West companies and did not properly allocate off-system sales margins within the AEP West companies.  The PUCT, the APSC and the Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers intervened in this filing.  In November 2008, the FERC issued a final order concluding that AEP inappropriately deviated from off-system sales margin allocation methods in the AEP SIA and the CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 through March 2006.  The FERC ordered AEP to recalculate and reallocate the off-system sales margins in compliance with the AEP SIA and to have the AEP East companies issue refunds to the AEP West companies.  Although the FERC determined that AEP deviated from the CSW Operating Agreement, the FERC determined the allocation methodology to be reasonable.  The FERC ordered AEP to submit a revised CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 to March 2006.  In December 2008, AEP filed a motion for rehearing and a revised CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 to March 2006.  The motion for rehearing is still pending.  In January 2009, AEP filed a compliance filing with the FERC and refunded approximately $250 million from the AEP East companies to the AEP West companies.  The AEP West companies shared a portion of such revenues with their wholesale and retail customers during this period.  In December 2008, the AEP West companies recorded a provision for refund which had a $97 million unfavorable effect on AEP net income.  In January 2009, SWEPCo refunded approximately $13 million to FERC wholesale customers.   In February 2009, SWEPCo filed a settlement agreement with the PUCT that provides for the Texas retail jurisdiction refund to be made through the fuel clause recovery mechanism.  PSO will begin refunding approximately $54 million plus accrued interest to Oklahoma retail customers through the fuel adjustment clause over a 12-month period beginning with the March 2009 billing cycle.  TCC and TNC in Texas and SWEPCo in Arkansas and Louisiana will be working with their state commissions to determine the effect the FERC order will have on retail rates.  Management believes that the existing provision for refund is adequate to address existing and any future refunds that may result from the FERC order.
The table below lists the respective amounts the AEP East companies and the AEP West companies recorded in December 2008 including the net increase (decrease) to net income for the year ended December 31, 2008:
Management cannot predict the outcome of the requested FERC rehearing proceeding or any future regulatory proceedings but believes our provision regarding future regulatory proceedings is adequate.
Regulatory assets and liabilities are comprised of the following items:
 
We are subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in our ordinary course of business.  In addition, our business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.  The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against us cannot be predicted.  For current proceedings not specifically discussed below, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such proceedings would have a material adverse effect on our financial statements.
Insurance and Potential Losses
We maintain insurance coverage normal and customary for an integrated electric utility, subject to various deductibles.  Our insurance includes coverage for all risks of physical loss or damage to our nonnuclear assets, subject to insurance policy conditions and exclusions.  Covered property generally includes power plants, substations, facilities and inventories.  Excluded property generally includes transmission and distribution lines, poles and towers.  Our insurance programs also generally provide coverage against loss arising from certain claims made by third parties and are in excess of retentions absorbed by us.  Coverage is generally provided by a combination of a South Carolina domiciled protected-cell captive insurance company, EIS, together with and/or in addition to various industry mutual and commercial insurance carriers.
See Note 9 for a discussion of nuclear exposures and related insurance.
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to meet potential losses and liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities relating to damage to the Cook Plant and costs of replacement power in the event of an incident at the Cook Plant.  Future losses or liabilities, if they occur, which are not completely insured, unless recovered from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our net income, cash flows and financial condition.
COMMITMENTS
Construction and Commitments
The AEP System has substantial construction commitments to support its operations and environmental investments.  In managing the overall construction program and in the normal course of business, we contractually commit to third-party construction vendors for certain material purchases and other construction services.  Budgeted construction expenditures for 2009 are $2.6 billion.  In addition, we expect to invest approximately $50 million in our transmission joint ventures in 2009.  Budgeted construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital.
Our subsidiaries purchase fuel, materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment under contract as part of their normal course of business.  Certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination.  We do not expect to incur penalty payments under these provisions that would materially affect our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The following table summarizes our actual contractual commitments at December 31, 2008:
GUARANTEES
We record certain immaterial liabilities for guarantees in accordance with FIN 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.  In addition, we adopted FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees:  An amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161 effective December 31, 2008.  There is no collateral held in relation to any guarantees in excess of our ownership percentages.  In the event any guarantee is drawn, there is no recourse to third parties unless specified below.
Letters of Credit
We enter into standby letters of credit (LOCs) with third parties.  These LOCs cover items such as gas and electricity risk management contracts, construction contracts, insurance programs, security deposits and debt service reserves.  As the Parent, we issued all of these LOCs in our ordinary course of business on behalf of our subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2008, the maximum future payments for LOCs issued under the two $1.5 billion credit facilities are $62 million with maturities ranging from March 2009 to March 2010.  The two $1.5 billion credit facilities were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.s commitment amount of $46 million following its bankruptcy.
In April 2008, we entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  As of December 31, 2008, $372 million of letters of credit were issued by subsidiaries under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate Pollution Control Bonds.
Guarantees of Third-Party Obligations
SWEPCo
As part of the process to receive a renewal of a Texas Railroad Commission permit for lignite mining, SWEPCo provides guarantees of mine reclamation in the amount of approximately $65 million.  Since SWEPCo uses self-bonding, the guarantee provides for SWEPCo to commit to use its resources to complete the reclamation in the event the work is not completed by Sabine Mining Company (Sabine), an entity consolidated under FIN 46R.  This guarantee ends upon depletion of reserves and completion of final reclamation.  Based on the latest study, we estimate the reserves will be depleted in 2029 with final reclamation completed by 2036, at an estimated cost of approximately $39 million.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has collected approximately $38 million through a rider for final mine closure costs, of which approximately $700 thousand is recorded in Other Current Liabilities, $20 million is recorded in Deferred Credits and Other and $18 million is recorded in Asset Retirement Obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Sabine charges SWEPCo, its only customer, all its costs.  SWEPCo passes these costs through its fuel clause.
Indemnifications and Other Guarantees
Contracts
We enter into several types of contracts which require indemnifications.  Typically these contracts include, but are not limited to, sale agreements, lease agreements, purchase agreements and financing agreements.  Generally, these agreements may include, but are not limited to, indemnifications around certain tax, contractual and environmental matters.  With respect to sale agreements, our exposure generally does not exceed the sale price.  The status of certain sales agreements is discussed in the Dispositions section of Note 7.  These sale agreements include indemnifications with a maximum exposure related to the collective purchase price, which is approximately $1.2 billion.  Approximately $1 billion of the maximum exposure relates to the Bank of America (BOA) litigation (see Enron Bankruptcy section of this note), of which the probable payment/performance risk is $433 million and is recorded in Deferred Credits and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008.  The remaining exposure is remote.  There are no material liabilities recorded for any indemnifications other than amounts recorded related to the BOA litigation.
Lease Obligations
We lease certain equipment under master lease agreements.  See Master Lease Agreements and Railcar Lease sections of Note 13 for disclosure of lease residual value guarantees.
CONTINGENCIES
Federal EPA Complaint and Notice of Violation
The Federal EPA, certain special interest groups and a number of states alleged that APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo modified certain units at their coal-fired generating plants in violation of the NSR requirements of the CAA.  Cases with similar allegations against CSPCo, Dayton Power and Light Company (DP&L) and Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. were also filed related to their jointly-owned units.
In 2007, the U.S. District Court approved our consent decree with the Federal EPA, the DOJ, the states and the special interest groups.  The consent decree resolved all issues related to various parties claims against us in the NSR cases.  Under the consent decree, we paid a $15 million civil penalty in 2008 and provided $36 million for environmental mitigation projects coordinated with the federal government and $24 million to the states for environmental mitigation.  We expensed these amounts in 2007.
In October 2008, the court approved a consent decree for a settlement reached with the Sierra Club in a case involving CSPCos share of jointly-owned units at the Stuart Station.  The Stuart units, operated by DP&L, are equipped with SCR and FGD controls.  Under the terms of the settlement, the joint-owners agreed to certain emission targets related to NO, SO and PM.  They also agreed to make energy efficiency and renewable energy commitments that are conditioned on receiving PUCO approval for recovery of costs.  The joint-owners also agreed to forfeit 5,500 SO allowances and provide $300 thousand to a third party organization to establish a solar water heater rebate program.  Another case involving a jointly-owned Beckjord unit had a liability trial in 2008.  Following the trial, the jury found no liability for claims made against the jointly-owned Beckjord unit.  In December 2008,  however, the court ordered a new trial in the Beckjord case.
x
2
2
We are unable to estimate the loss or range of loss related to any contingent liability, if any, we might have for civil penalties under the pending CAA proceeding for Beckjord.  We are also unable to predict the timing of resolution of these matters.  If we do not prevail, we believe we can recover any capital and operating costs of additional pollution control equipment that may be required as a result of the consent decree through future regulated rates or market prices of electricity.  If we are unable to recover such costs or if material penalties are imposed, it would adversely affect our future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
SWEPCo Notice of Enforcement and Notice of Citizen Suit
In March 2005, two special interest groups, Sierra Club and Public Citizen, filed a complaint in federal district court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging violations of the CAA at SWEPCos Welsh Plant.  In April 2008, the parties filed a proposed consent decree to resolve all claims in this case and in the pending appeal of the altered permit for the Welsh Plant.  The consent decree requires SWEPCo to install continuous particulate emission monitors at the Welsh Plant, secure 65 MW of renewable energy capacity by 2010, fund $2 million in emission reduction, energy efficiency or environmental mitigation projects by 2012 and pay a portion of plaintiffs attorneys fees and costs.  The consent decree was entered as a final order in June 2008.
In 2004, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) issued a Notice of Enforcement to SWEPCo relating to the Welsh Plant.  A permit alteration was issued in March 2007 that clarified or eliminated certain of the permit conditions.  In June 2007, TCEQ denied a motion to overturn the permit alteration.  The permit alteration was appealed to the Travis County District Court, but was resolved by entry of the consent decree in the federal citizen suit action, and dismissed with prejudice in July 2008.  Notice of an administrative settlement of the TCEQ enforcement action was published in June 2008.  The settlement requires SWEPCo to pay an administrative penalty of $49 thousand and to fund a supplemental environmental project in the amount of $49 thousand, and resolves all violations alleged by TCEQ.  In October 2008, TCEQ approved the settlement.
In February 2008, the Federal EPA issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) based on alleged violations of a percent sulfur in fuel limitation and the heat input values listed in the previous state permit.  The NOV also alleges that the permit alteration issued by TCEQ was improper.  SWEPCo met with the Federal EPA to discuss the alleged violations in March 2008.  The Federal EPA did not object to the settlement of similar alleged violations in the federal citizen suit.
We are unable to predict the timing of any future action by the Federal EPA or the effect of such action on our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
Carbon Dioxide Public Nuisance Claims
In 2004, eight states and the City of New York filed an action in federal district court for the Southern District of New York against AEP, AEPSC, Cinergy Corp, Xcel Energy, Southern Company and Tennessee Valley Authority.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, on behalf of three special interest groups, filed a similar complaint against the same defendants.  The actions allege that CO emissions from the defendants power plants constitute a public nuisance under federal common law due to impacts of global warming, and sought injunctive relief in the form of specific emission reduction commitments from the defendants.  The dismissal of this lawsuit was appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.  Briefing and oral argument concluded in 2006.   In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision holding that the Federal EPA has authority to regulate emissions of CO and other greenhouse gases under the CAA, which may impact the Second Circuits analysis of these issues.  The Second Circuit requested supplemental briefs addressing the impact of the Supreme Courts decision on this case which we provided in 2007.  We believe the actions are without merit and intend to defend against the claims.
2
2
Alaskan Villages Claims
In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against AEP, AEPSC and 22 other unrelated defendants including oil & gas companies, a coal company, and other electric generating companies.  The complaint alleges that the defendants' emissions of CO contribute to global warming and constitute a public and private nuisance and that the defendants are acting together.  The complaint further alleges that some of the defendants, including AEP, conspired to create a false scientific debate about global warming in order to deceive the public and perpetuate the alleged nuisance.  The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global warming will require the relocation of the village at an alleged cost of $95 million to $400 million.  The defendants filed motions to dismiss the action.  The motions are pending before the court.  We believe the action is without merit and intend to defend against the claims.
2
By-products from the generation of electricity include materials such as ash, slag, sludge, low-level radioactive waste and SNF.  Coal combustion by-products, which constitute the overwhelming percentage of these materials, are typically treated and deposited in captive disposal facilities or are beneficially utilized.  In addition, our generating plants and transmission and distribution facilities have used asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and other hazardous and nonhazardous materials.  We currently incur costs to safely dispose of these substances.
Superfund addresses clean-up of hazardous substances that have been released to the environment.  The Federal EPA administers the clean-up programs.  Several states have enacted similar laws.  At December 31, 2008, our subsidiaries are named by the Federal EPA as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) for six sites for which alleged liability is unresolved.  There are nine additional sites for which our subsidiaries have received information requests which could lead to PRP designation.  Our subsidiaries have also been named potentially liable at four sites under state law including the I&M site discussed in the next paragraph.  In those instances where we have been named a PRP or defendant, our disposal or recycling activities were in accordance with the then-applicable laws and regulations.  Superfund does not recognize compliance as a defense, but imposes strict liability on parties who fall within its broad statutory categories.  Liability has been resolved for a number of sites with no significant effect on net income.
In March 2008, I&M received a letter from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) concerning conditions at a site under state law and requesting I&M take voluntary action necessary to prevent and/or mitigate public harm.  I&M requested remediation proposals from environmental consulting firms.  In May 2008, I&M issued a contract to one of the consulting firms.  I&M recorded approximately $4 million of expense through December 31, 2008.  As the remediation work is completed, I&Ms cost may increase.  I&M cannot predict the amount of additional cost, if any.  At present, our estimates do not anticipate material cleanup costs for this site.
We evaluate the potential liability for each Superfund site separately, but several general statements can be made regarding our potential future liability.  Disposal of materials at a particular site is often unsubstantiated and the quantity of materials deposited at a site was small and often nonhazardous.  Although Superfund liability has been interpreted by the courts as joint and several, typically many parties are named as PRPs for each site and several of the parties are financially sound enterprises.  At present, our estimates do not anticipate material cleanup costs for any of our identified Superfund sites.
Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown
In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and are within the vendors warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  I&M is working with its insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), and its turbine vendor, Siemens, to evaluate the extent of the damage resulting from the incident and the costs to return the unit to service.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $330 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendors warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  Our current analysis indicates that with successful repairs and timely parts deliveries, Unit 1 could resume operations as early as September 2009 at reduced power.  If the rotors cannot be repaired, replacement of parts will extend the outage into 2010.
The refueling outage for Cook Plant Unit 2, which continues to operate at full power, will take place as scheduled in the spring of 2009.  The refueling outage scheduled for the fall of 2009 for Unit 1 is currently being evaluated.  Management anticipates that the loss of capacity from Unit 1 will not affect I&Ms ability to serve customers due to the existence of sufficient generating capacity in the AEP Power Pool.
I&M maintains property insurance through NEIL with a $1 million deductible.  As of December 31, 2008, we recorded $28 million in Prepayments and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheet representing recoverable amounts under property insurance proceeds.  I&M also maintains a separate accidental outage policy with NEIL whereby, after a 12-week deductible period, I&M is entitled to weekly payments of $3.5 million for the first 52 weeks following the deductible period.  After the initial 52 weeks of indemnity, the policy pays $2.8 million per week for up to an additional 110 weeks.  I&M began receiving payments under the accidental outage policy effective December 15, 2008.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if the unit is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
In January 2009, I&M filed its regular semi-annual fuel filing in Indiana which determines the fuel rate for the period April 2009 through September 2009.  I&M filed to provide to customers a portion of the accidental outage insurance proceeds expected during the forecast period.  I&M has deferred $9 million of accidental outage insurance proceeds as of December 31, 2008 which is included in Other Current Liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
TEM Litigation
We agreed to sell up to approximately 800 MW of energy to Tractebel Energy Marketing, Inc. (TEM) (now known as SUEZ Energy Marketing NA, Inc.) for a period of 20 years under a Power Purchase and Sale Agreement (PPA).  Beginning May 1, 2003, we tendered replacement capacity, energy and ancillary services to TEM pursuant to the PPA that TEM rejected as nonconforming.
In 2003, TEM and AEP separately filed declaratory judgment actions in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
In January 2008, we reached a settlement with TEM to resolve all litigation regarding the PPA.  TEM paid us $255 million.  We recorded the $255 million as a pretax gain in January 2008 under Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  This settlement related to the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility, which we impaired and sold in 2006.
Enron Bankruptcy
In 2001, we purchased HPL from Enron.  Various HPL-related contingencies and indemnities from Enron remained unsettled at the date of Enrons bankruptcy.  In connection with our acquisition of HPL, we entered into an agreement with BAM Lease Company that granted HPL the exclusive right to use approximately 55 billion cubic feet (BCF) of cushion gas required for the normal operation of the Bammel gas storage facility.  At the time of our acquisition of HPL, BOA and certain other banks (the BOA Syndicate) and Enron entered into an agreement granting HPL the exclusive use of the cushion gas.  Also at the time of our acquisition, Enron and the BOA Syndicate released HPL from all prior and future liabilities and obligations in connection with the financing arrangement.  After the Enron bankruptcy, the BOA Syndicate informed HPL of a purported default by Enron under the terms of the financing arrangement.  This dispute is being litigated in the Enron bankruptcy proceedings and in federal courts in Texas and New York.
In February 2004, Enron filed Notices of Rejection regarding the cushion gas exclusive right to use agreement and other incidental agreements.  We objected to Enrons attempted rejection of these agreements and filed an adversary proceeding in the bankruptcy proceeding contesting Enrons right to reject these agreements.
In 2003, AEP filed a lawsuit against BOA in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas.  BOA led the lending syndicate involving the monetization of the cushion gas to Enron and its subsidiaries.  The lawsuit asserts that BOA made representations and engaged in fraud to induce and promote the stock sale of HPL, that BOA directly benefited from the sale of HPL and that AEP undertook the stock purchase and entered into the cushion gas arrangement with Enron and BOA based on misrepresentations that BOA made about Enrons financial condition that BOA knew or should have known were false.  In April 2005, the Judge in Texas entered an order severing and transferring the declaratory judgment claims involving the right to use and cushion gas consent agreements to the Southern District of New York and retaining in the Southern District of Texas the four counts alleging breach of contract, fraud and negligent misrepresentation.  HPL and BOA filed motions for summary judgment in the case pending in the Southern District of New York.  Trial in federal court in Texas was continued pending a decision on the motions for summary judgment in the New York case.
In August 2007, the judge in the New York action issued a decision granting BOA summary judgment and dismissing our claims.  In December 2007, the judge held that BOA is entitled to recover damages of approximately $347 million ($427 million including interest at December 31, 2007).  In August 2008, the court entered a final judgment of $346 million (the original judgment less $1 million BOA would have incurred to remove 55 BCF of natural gas from the Bammel storage facility) and clarified the interest calculation method.  We appealed and posted a bond covering the amount of the judgment entered against us.  The appeal was briefed during the first quarter of 2009.
In 2005, we sold our interest in HPL.  We indemnified the buyer of HPL against any damages resulting from the BOA litigation up to the purchase price.  After recalculation for the final judgment, the liability for the BOA litigation was $433 million and $427 million including interest at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These liabilities are included in Deferred Credits and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Shareholder Lawsuits
In 2002 and 2003, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in Federal District Court, Columbus, Ohio against AEP, certain executives and AEPs ERISA Plan Administrator alleging violations of ERISA in the selection of AEP stock as an investment alternative and in the allocation of assets to AEP stock.  In these actions, the plaintiffs sought recovery of an unstated amount of compensatory damages, attorney fees and costs.  Two of the three actions were dropped voluntarily by the plaintiffs in those cases.  In July 2006, the court entered judgment in the remaining case, denying plaintiffs motion for class certification and dismissing all claims without prejudice.  In August 2007, the appeals court reversed the trial courts decision and held that the plaintiff did have standing to pursue his claim.  The appeals court remanded the case to the trial court to consider the issue of whether the plaintiff is an adequate representative for the class of plan participants.  In September 2008, the trial court denied the plaintiffs motion for class certification and ordered briefing on whether the plaintiff may maintain an ERISA claim on behalf of the Plan in the absence of class certification.  In October 2008, counsel for the plaintiff filed a motion to intervene on behalf of an individual seeking to intervene as a new plaintiff.  We opposed this motion and will continue to defend against these claims.
Natural Gas Markets Lawsuits
In 2002, the Lieutenant Governor of California filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles County California Superior Court against numerous energy companies, including AEP, alleging violations of California law through alleged fraudulent reporting of false natural gas price and volume information with an intent to affect the market price of natural gas and electricity.  AEP was dismissed from the case.  A number of similar cases were also filed in California and in state and federal courts in several states making essentially the same allegations under federal or state laws against the same companies.  AEP (or a subsidiary) is among the companies named as defendants in some of these cases.  These cases are at various pre-trial stages.  In June 2008, we settled all of the cases pending against us in California.  The settlements did not impact 2008 earnings due to provisions made in prior periods.  We will continue to defend each remaining case where an AEP company is a defendant.  We believe the provision we have for the remaining cases is adequate.
Rail Transportation Litigation
In October 2008, the Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority and the Public Utilities Board of the City of Brownsville, Texas, as co-owners of Oklaunion Plant, filed a lawsuit in United States District Court, Western District of Oklahoma against AEP alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duties related to negotiations for rail transportation services for the plant.  The plaintiffs allege that AEP assumed the duties of the project manager, PSO, and operated the plant for the project manager and is therefore responsible for the alleged breaches.  In December 2008, the court denied our motion to dismiss the case. We intend to vigorously defend against these allegations.  We believe a provision recorded in 2008 should be sufficient.
FERC Long-term Contracts
In 2002, the FERC held a hearing related to a complaint filed by Nevada Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power Company (the Nevada utilities).  The complaint sought to break long-term contracts entered during the 2000 and 2001 California energy price spike which the customers alleged were high-priced.  The complaint alleged that we sold power at unjust and unreasonable prices because the market for power was allegedly dysfunctional at the time such contracts were executed.  In 2003, the FERC rejected the complaint.  In 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the FERC order and remanded the case to the FERC for further proceedings.  That decision was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  In June 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the validity of contractually-agreed rates except in cases of serious harm to the public.  The U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the Ninth Circuits remand on two issues, market manipulation and excessive burden on consumers.  The FERC initiated remand procedures and gave the parties time to attempt to settle the issues.  We believe a provision recorded in 2008 should be sufficient. We have asserted claims against certain companies that sold power to us, which we resold to the Nevada utilities, seeking to recover a portion of any amounts we may owe to the Nevada utilities.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings or their ultimate impact on future net income and cash flows.
ACQUISITIONS
2008
Erlbacher companies (AEP River Operations segment)
In June 2008, AEP River Operations purchased certain barging assets from Missouri Barge Line Company, Missouri Dry Dock and Repair Company and Cape Girardeau Fleeting, Inc. (collectively known as Erlbacher companies) for $35 million.  These assets were incorporated into AEP River Operations business which will diversify its customer base.
2007
Darby Electric Generating Station (Utility Operations segment)
In November 2006, CSPCo agreed to purchase Darby Electric Generating Station (Darby) from DPL Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of The Dayton Power and Light Company, for $102 million and the assumption of liabilities of $2 million.  CSPCo completed the purchase in April 2007.  The Darby Plant is located near Mount Sterling, Ohio and is a natural gas, simple cycle power plant with a generating capacity of 480 MW.
Lawrenceburg Generating Station (Utility Operations segment)
In January 2007, AEGCo agreed to purchase Lawrenceburg Generating Station (Lawrenceburg) from an affiliate of Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) for $325 million and the assumption of liabilities of $3 million.  AEGCo completed the purchase in May 2007.  Lawrenceburg is located in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, adjacent to I&Ms Tanners Creek Plant, and is a natural gas, combined cycle power plant with a generating capacity of 1,096 MW.  AEGCo sells the power to CSPCo through a FERC-approved unit power agreement.
Dresden Plant (Utility Operations segment)
In August 2007, AEGCo agreed to purchase the partially completed Dresden Plant from Dominion Resources, Inc. for $85 million and the assumption of liabilities of $2 million.  AEGCo completed the purchase in September 2007.  AEGCo incurred approximately $78 million and $3 million in construction costs (excluding AFUDC) at the Dresden Plant in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and expects to incur approximately $142 million in additional costs (excluding AFUDC) prior to completion in 2013.  The Dresden Plant is located near Dresden, Ohio and is a natural gas, combined cycle power plant.  When completed, the Dresden Plant will have a generating capacity of 580 MW.
2006
None
DISPOSITIONS
2009
Electric Transmission Texas LLC (ETT) (Utility Operations segment)
In January 2009, TCC sold $60 million of transmission facilities to ETT.  See the 2007 activity for ETT below.
2008
None
2007
Electric Transmission Texas LLC (ETT) (Utility Operations segment)
In December 2007, TCC contributed $70 million of transmission facilities to ETT, a newly-formed affiliated entity which will own and operate transmission facilities in ERCOT.  Through a series of transactions, we then sold, at net book value, a 50% equity ownership interest in ETT to a subsidiary of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.
Texas Plants  Oklaunion Power Station (Utility Operations segment)
In February 2007, TCC sold its 7.81% share of Oklaunion Power Station to the Public Utilities Board of the City of Brownsville for $43 million plus capital adjustments.  The sale did not impact net income.
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE) (All Other)
In November 2000, we made our initial investment in ICE.  An initial public offering (IPO) occurred on November 15, 2005.  During 2006, we sold approximately 600,000 shares and recognized a $39 million pretax gain ($25 million, net of tax).  In March 2007, we sold 130,000 shares of ICE and recognized a $16 million pretax gain ($10 million, net of tax).  We recorded the gains in Interest and Investment Income on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Our remaining investment of approximately 138,000 shares as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is recorded in Other Temporary Investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Texas REPs (Utility Operations segment)
As part of the purchase power and sale agreement related to the sale of our Texas REPs in 2002, we retained the right to share in earnings with Centrica from the two REPs above a threshold amount through 2006 if the Texas retail market developed increased earnings opportunities.  In 2007, we received the final earnings sharing payment of $20 million.  We received $70 million in 2006 for our share of earnings.  The payments are reflected in Gain on Disposition of Assets, Net on our Consolidated Statement of Income.
Sweeny Cogeneration Plant (Generation and Marketing segment)
In October 2007, we sold our 50% equity interest in Sweeny to ConocoPhillips for approximately $80 million, including working capital and the buyers assumption of project debt.  The Sweeny Cogeneration Plant is a 480 MW cogeneration plant located within ConocoPhillips Sweeny refinery complex southwest of Houston, Texas.  We were the managing partner of the plant, which is co-owned by General Electric Company.  As a result of the sale, we recognized a $47 million pretax gain ($30 million, net of tax) in 2007, which is reflected in Gain on Disposition of Equity Investments, Net on our 2007 Consolidated Statement of Income.
In addition to the sale of our interest in Sweeny, we agreed to separately sell our purchase power contract for our share of power generated by Sweeny through 2014 for $11 million to ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips also agreed to assume certain related third-party power obligations.  These transactions were completed in conjunction with the sale of our 50% equity interest in October 2007.  As a result of this sale, we recognized an $11 million pretax gain ($7 million, net of tax) in 2007, which is included in Other revenues on our 2007 Consolidated Statement of Income.  In 2007, we recognized a total of $58 million in pretax gains on the Sweeny transactions ($37 million, net of tax).
2006
Compresion Bajio S de R.L. de C.V. (All Other)
In January 2002, we acquired a 50% interest in Compresion Bajio S de R.L. de C.V. (Bajio), a 600 MW power plant in Mexico.  We received an indicative offer for Bajio in September 2005, which resulted in a pretax other-than-temporary impairment charge of approximately $7 million in 2005.  We completed the sale in February 2006 for approximately $29 million with no effect on our 2006 net income.
Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility (All Other)
In August 2006, we reached an agreement to sell our Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility (the Facility) to Dow Chemical Company (Dow) for $64 million.  We recorded a pretax impairment of $209 million ($136 million, net of tax) in 2006 based on the terms of the agreement to sell the Facility to Dow.  We recorded the impairment in Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges on our 2006 Consolidated Statement of Income.  The Facility does not meet the criteria for discontinued operations reporting.
We completed the sale in 2006.  Excluding the 2006 impairment of $209 million discussed above, the effect of the sale on our 2006 net income was not significant.  In addition to the cash proceeds, the sale agreement allows us to participate in gross margin sharing on the Facility for five years.  Under this agreement, we recorded gross margin sharing of $13 million and $10 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively.  These margins were recorded in Gain on Disposition of Assets, Net on our 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Statements of Income.  As a result of the sale, Dow reduced an existing below-current-market long-term power supply contract with us in Texas by 50 MW and we retained the right to any judgment paid by TEM for breaching the original Power Purchase and Sale Agreement (PPA).  In 2003, we filed that TEM breached the PPA.  In January 2008, we reached a settlement with TEM to resolve all litigation regarding the PPA.  TEM paid us $255 million and we recorded the amount as a pretax gain under Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges on our Consolidated Statements of Income in 2008.  See TEM Litigation section of Note 6.
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE) (All Other)
See the above 2007 disclosure Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE) for information regarding sales in 2006.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Management periodically assesses our overall business model and makes decisions regarding our continued support and funding of our various businesses and operations.  When it is determined that we will seek to exit a particular business or activity and we have met the accounting requirements for reclassification, we will reclassify those businesses or activities as discontinued operations.  The assets and liabilities of these discontinued operations are classified in Assets Held for Sale and Liabilities Held for Sale until the time that they are sold.
Certain of our operations were determined to be discontinued operations and are classified as such in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  Results of operations of these businesses are classified as shown in the following table:
ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES
2008
We recorded $255 million as a pretax gain in January 2008 under Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges as a result of the settlement with TEM.  See Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility section of this note for additional information.
2007
None
2006
We recorded a pretax impairment of assets totaling $209 million as a result of the terms of our agreement to sell the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility to Dow.  See Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility section of this note for additional information regarding this sale.
The categories of impairments and gains on dispositions include:
8.       
BENEFIT PLANS
We sponsor two qualified pension plans that we merged at December 31, 2008 and two unfunded nonqualified pension plans.  A substantial majority of our employees are covered by either one qualified plan or both a qualified and a nonqualified pension plan.  We sponsor OPEB plans to provide medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees.
We adopted SFAS 158 in December 2006 and recognized the obligations associated with our defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans in the balance sheets.  We recognize an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status, and recognize, as a component of other comprehensive income, the changes in the funded status of the plan that arise during the year that are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost.  We record a SFAS 71 regulatory asset for qualifying SFAS 158 costs of our regulated operations that for ratemaking purposes are deferred for future recovery.  The effect of SFAS 158 on our 2006 financial statements was a pretax AOCI adjustment of $1,236 million that was offset by a SFAS 71 regulatory asset of $875 million and a deferred income tax asset of $126 million resulting in a net of tax AOCI equity reduction of $235 million.
SFAS 158 requires adjustment of pretax AOCI at the end of each year, for both underfunded and overfunded defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, to an amount equal to the remaining unrecognized deferrals for unamortized actuarial losses or gains, prior service costs and transition obligations, such that remaining deferred costs result in an AOCI equity reduction and deferred gains result in an AOCI equity addition.  The year-end AOCI measure can be volatile based on fluctuating market conditions, investment returns and discount rates.
 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the plans projected benefit obligations and fair value of assets over the two-year period ending at the plans measurement date of December 31, 2008, and their funded status as of December 31 of each year:
Projected Plan Obligations, Plan Assets, Funded Status as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
We have significant investments in several trust funds to provide for future pension and OPEB payments.  All of our trust funds investments are diversified and managed in compliance with all laws and regulations.  The value of the investments in these trusts declined substantially in 2008 due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are lower, this decline has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.
Amounts Recognized on the Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
SFAS 158 Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
Components of the Change in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Pretax AOCI during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans Assets
The asset allocations for our pension plans at the end of 2008 and 2007, and the target allocation for 2009, by asset category, are as follows:
The asset allocations for our OPEB plans at the end of 2008 and 2007, and target allocation for 2009, by asset category, are as follows:
Our investment strategy for our employee benefit trust funds is to use a diversified portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable rate of return while managing the interest rate sensitivity of the plans assets relative to the plans liabilities.  To minimize investment risk, our employee benefit trust funds are broadly diversified among classes of assets, investment strategies and investment managers.  We regularly review the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to our targeted allocation when considered appropriate.  Our investment policies and guidelines allow investment managers in approved strategies to use financial derivatives to obtain or manage market exposures and to hedge assets and liabilities.  Our investment policies prohibit the benefit trust funds from purchasing AEP securities (with the exception of proportionate and immaterial holdings of AEP securities in passive index strategies).  However, our investment policies do not preclude the benefit trust funds from receiving contributions in the form of AEP securities, provided that the AEP securities acquired by each plan may not exceed the limitations imposed by law, including ERISA.
The value of our pension plans assets decreased substantially to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008 from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2007.  The qualified plans paid $289 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008 (nonqualified plans paid $7 million in benefits).  The value of our OPEB plans assets decreased substantially to $1 billion at December 31, 2008 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007.  The OPEB plans paid $120 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008.
We base our determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets which reduces year-to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets.  Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded.
For our underfunded pension plans that had an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets of these plans at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
Actuarial Assumptions for Benefit Obligations
The weighted-average assumptions as of December 31, used in the measurement of our benefit obligations are shown in the following tables:
To determine a discount rate, we use a duration-based method by constructing a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds similar to those included in the Moodys Aa bond index with a duration matching the benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio is used as the discount rate for the plan.
For 2008, the rate of compensation increase assumed varies with the age of the employee, ranging from 5% per year to 11.5% per year, with an average increase of 5.9%.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments and Contributions
Information about the 2009 expected cash flows for the pension (qualified and nonqualified) and OPEB plans is as follows:
The contribution to the pension plans is based on the minimum amount required by ERISA plus the amount to pay unfunded nonqualified benefits.  The contribution to the OPEB plans is generally based on the amount of the OPEB plans periodic benefit cost for accounting purposes as provided for in agreements with state regulatory authorities, plus the additional discretionary contribution of our Medicare subsidy receipts.
The table below reflects the total benefits expected to be paid from the plan or from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants share of the cost, which is funded by participant contributions to the plan.  Medicare subsidy receipts are shown in the year of the corresponding benefit payments, even though actual cash receipts are expected early in the following year.  Future benefit payments are dependent on the number of employees retiring, whether the retiring employees elect to receive pension benefits as annuities or as lump sum distributions, future integration of the benefit plans with changes to Medicare and other legislation, future levels of interest rates, and variances in actuarial results.  The estimated payments for pension benefits and OPEB are as follows:
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
The following table provides the components of our net periodic benefit cost for the plans for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
Estimated amounts expected to be amortized to net periodic benefit costs for our plans during 2009 are shown in the following table:
Actuarial Assumptions for Net Periodic Benefit Costs
The weighted-average assumptions as of January 1, used in the measurement of our benefit costs are shown in the following tables:
The expected return on plan assets for 2008 was determined by evaluating historical returns, the current investment climate (yield on fixed income securities and other recent investment market indicators), rate of inflation, and current prospects for economic growth.
The health care trend rate assumptions as of January 1, used for OPEB plans measurement purposes are shown below:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the OPEB health care plans.  A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plan
We sponsor the American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plan, a defined contribution retirement savings plan for substantially all employees who are not members of the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA).  It is a qualified plan offering participants an opportunity to contribute a portion of their pay with features under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  We provided matching contributions of 75% of the first 6% of eligible compensation contributed by an employee in 2008.  Effective January 1, 2009, we match the first 1% of eligible employee contributions at 100% and the next 5% of contributions at 70%.  The cost for company matching contributions totaled $71 million in 2008, $66 million in 2007 and $62 million in 2006.
UMWA Benefits
We provide UMWA pension, health and welfare benefits for certain unionized mining employees, retirees, and their survivors who meet eligibility requirements.  UMWA trustees make final interpretive determinations with regard to all benefits.  The pension benefits are administered by UMWA trustees and contributions are made to their trust funds.
The health and welfare benefits are administered by us and benefits are paid from our general assets.  Contributions were not material in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
9.       
NUCLEAR
I&M owns and operates the two-unit 2,110 MW Cook Plant under licenses granted by the NRC.  We have a significant future financial commitment to dispose of SNF and to safely decommission and decontaminate the plant.  The licenses to operate the two nuclear units at the Cook Plant expire in 2034 and 2037.  The operation of a nuclear facility also involves special risks, potential liabilities and specific regulatory and safety requirements.  Should a nuclear incident occur at any nuclear power plant in the U.S., the resultant liability could be substantial.  By agreement, I&M is partially liable, together with all other electric utility companies that own nuclear generating units, for a nuclear power plant incident at any nuclear plant in the U.S.
Decommissioning and Low Level Waste Accumulation Disposal
The cost to decommission a nuclear plant is affected by NRC regulations and the SNF disposal program.  Decommissioning costs are accrued over the service life of the Cook Plant.  The most recent decommissioning cost study was performed in 2006.  According to that study, the estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-level radioactive waste ranges from $733 million to $1.3 billion in 2006 nondiscounted dollars.  The wide range in estimated costs is caused by variables in assumptions.  I&M recovers estimated decommissioning costs for the Cook Plant in its rates.  The amount recovered in rates was $27 million in 2008, $32 million in 2007 and $30 million in 2006.  Decommissioning costs recovered from customers are deposited in external trusts.  The settlement agreement in I&Ms base rate case will reduce the annual decommissioning cost recovery amount effective in 2009 to reflect the extension of the units operating licenses granted by the NRC.
I&M deposited an additional $4 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in its decommissioning trust under funding provisions approved by regulatory commissions.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the total decommissioning trust fund balance was $959 million and $1.1 billion, respectively.  Trust fund earnings increase the fund assets and decrease the amount remaining to be recovered from ratepayers.  The decommissioning costs (including interest, unrealized gains and losses and expenses of the trust funds) increase or decrease the recorded liability.
I&M continues to work with regulators and customers to recover the remaining estimated costs of decommissioning the Cook Plant.  However, future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition would be adversely affected if the cost of SNF disposal and decommissioning continues to increase and cannot be recovered.
SNF Disposal
The Federal government is responsible for permanent SNF disposal and assesses fees to nuclear plant owners for SNF disposal.  A fee of one mill per KWH for fuel consumed after April 6, 1983 at the Cook Plant is being collected from customers and remitted to the U.S. Treasury.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, fees and related interest of $264 million and $259 million, respectively, for fuel consumed prior to April 7, 1983 have been recorded as Long-term Debt and funds collected from customers along with related earnings totaling $301 million and $285 million, respectively, to pay the fee are recorded as part of Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts.  I&M has not paid the government the pre-April 1983 fees due to continued delays and uncertainties related to the federal disposal program.
Trust Assets for Decommissioning and SNF Disposal
We record securities held in trust funds for decommissioning nuclear facilities and for the disposal of SNF at market value.  We classify securities in the trust funds as available-for-sale due to their long-term purpose.  As discussed in the Nuclear Trust Funds section of Note 1, we record unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairments from securities in these trust funds as adjustments to the regulatory liability account for the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and to regulatory assets or liabilities for the SNF disposal trust funds in accordance with their treatment in rates.  The gains, losses or other-than-temporary impairments shown below did not affect earnings or AOCI.  The trust assets are recorded by jurisdiction and may not be used for another jurisdictions liabilities.  Regulatory approval is required to withdraw decommissioning funds.
See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements section of Note 11 for disclosure of the fair value of assets within the trusts.
:
The following is a summary of nuclear trust fund investments at December 31
Proceeds from sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $732 million, $696 million and $631 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Purchases of nuclear trust fund investments were $804 million, $777 million and $692 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Gross realized gains from the sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $33 million, $15 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Gross realized losses from the sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $7 million, $5 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The fair value of debt securities held in the nuclear trust funds, summarized by contractual maturities, at December 31, 2008 was as follows:
 
Nuclear Incident Liability
I&M carries insurance coverage for property damage, decommissioning and decontamination at the Cook Plant in the amount of $1.8 billion.  I&M purchases $1 billion of excess coverage for property damage, decommissioning and decontamination.  Additional insurance provides coverage for a weekly indemnity payment resulting from an insured accidental outage.  I&M utilizes an industry mutual insurer for the placement of this insurance coverage.  Participation in this mutual insurance requires a contingent financial obligation of up to $37 million for I&M which is assessable if the insurers financial resources would be inadequate to pay for losses.
The Price-Anderson Act, extended through December 31, 2025, establishes insurance protection for public liability arising from a nuclear incident at $12.5 billion and covers any incident at a licensed reactor in the U.S.  Commercially available insurance, which must be carried for each licensed reactor, provides $300 million of coverage.  In the event of a nuclear incident at any nuclear plant in the U.S., the remainder of the liability would be provided by a deferred premium assessment of $117.5 million on each licensed reactor in the U.S. payable in annual installments of $17.5 million.  As a result, I&M could be assessed $235 million per nuclear incident payable in annual installments of $35 million.  The number of incidents for which payments could be required is not limited.
In the event of an incident of a catastrophic nature, we are initially covered for the first $300 million through commercially available insurance.  The next level of liability coverage of up to $12.2 billion would be covered by claims made under the Price-Anderson Act.  If the liability were in excess of amounts recoverable from insurance and retrospective claim payments made under the Price-Anderson Act, we would seek to recover those amounts from customers through rate increases.  In the event nuclear losses or liabilities are underinsured or exceed accumulated funds and recovery from customers is not possible, net income, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Our primary business is our electric utility operations.  Within our Utility Operations segment, we centrally dispatch all generation assets and manage our overall utility operations on an integrated basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight.  While our Utility Operations segment remains our primary business segment, other segments include our AEP River Operations segment with significant barging activities and our Generation and Marketing segment, which includes our nonregulated generating, marketing and risk management activities primarily in the ERCOT market area.  Intersegment sales and transfers are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements.
Our reportable segments and their related business activities are as follows:
Utility Operations
AEP River Operations
Generation and Marketing
The remainder of our companys activities is presented as All Other.  While not considered a business segment, All Other includes:
The tables below present our reportable segment information for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and balance sheet information as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.  These amounts include certain estimates and allocations where necessary.  We reclassified prior year amounts to conform to the current years segment presentation.  See FSP FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 (FSP FIN 39-1) section of Note 2 for discussion of changes in netting certain balance sheet amounts.
DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING
SFAS 133 requires recognition of all qualifying derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position at fair value.  The fair values of derivative instruments accounted for using MTM accounting or hedge accounting are based on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the best information available including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes and supply and demand market data and assumptions.  The fair values determined are reduced by the appropriate valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit quality.  Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will fail to perform to the contract or fail to pay amounts due.  Liquidity risk represents the risk that imperfections in the market will cause the price to be less than or more than what the price should be based purely on supply and demand.  Since energy markets are imperfect and volatile, there are inherent risks related to the underlying assumptions in models used to fair value risk management contracts.  Unforeseen events can and will cause reasonable price curves to differ from actual prices throughout a contracts term and at the time a contract settles.  Therefore, there could be significant adverse or favorable effects on future net income and cash flows if market prices are not consistent with our approach at estimating current market consensus for forward prices in the current period.  This is particularly true for longer term contracts.
Certain qualifying derivative instruments have been designated as normal purchase or normal sale contracts, as provided in SFAS 133.  Derivative contracts that have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales under SFAS 133 are not subject to MTM accounting treatment and are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income on an accrual basis.
Our accounting for the changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies for and has been designated as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship.  Depending on the exposure, we designate a hedging instrument as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge.  For fair value hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk), we recognize the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item associated with the hedged risk in Net Income during the period of change.  For cash flow hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), we initially report the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets until the period the hedged item affects Net Income.  We recognize any hedge ineffectiveness in Net Income immediately during the period of change, except in regulated jurisdictions where hedge ineffectiveness is recorded as a regulatory asset (for losses) or a regulatory liability (for gains).
For contracts that have not been designated as part of a hedging relationship, the accounting for changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative instrument is held for trading purposes. Unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments held for trading purposes are included in Revenues on a net basis in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments not held for trading purposes are included in Revenues or Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income depending on the relevant facts and circumstances.  However, unrealized gains and losses in regulated jurisdictions for both trading and non-trading derivative instruments are recorded as a regulatory asset (for losses) or a regulatory liability (for gains).
Fair Value Hedging Strategies
At certain times, we enter into interest rate derivative transactions in order to manage existing fixed interest rate risk exposure.  These interest rate derivative transactions effectively modify our exposure to interest rate risk by converting a portion of our fixed-rate debt to a floating rate.  We record gains or losses on swaps that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment, as well as offsetting changes in the fair value of the debt being hedged, in Interest Expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized no hedge ineffectiveness related to these derivative transactions.
Cash Flow Hedging Strategies
We enter into, and designate as cash flow hedges, certain derivative transactions for the purchase and sale of electricity, coal and natural gas (collectively Power) in order to manage the variable price risk related to the forecasted purchase and sale of these commodities.  We closely monitor the potential impacts of commodity price changes and, where appropriate, enter into derivative transactions to protect margins for a portion of future electricity sales and fuel or energy purchases.  Realized gains and losses on these derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are included in Revenues, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation or Purchased Electricity for Resale on our Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on the specific nature of the risk being hedged.  We do not hedge all variable price risk exposure related to energy commodities.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized immaterial amounts in Net Income related to hedge ineffectiveness.
We enter into a variety of interest rate derivative transactions in order to manage interest rate risk exposure.  Some interest rate derivative transactions effectively modify our exposure to interest rate risk by converting a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed rate.  We also enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage interest rate exposure related to anticipated borrowings of fixed-rate debt.  Our anticipated fixed-rate debt offerings have a high probability of occurrence because the proceeds will be used to fund existing debt maturities as well as fund projected capital expenditures.  We reclassify gains and losses on the hedges from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) into Interest Expense in those periods in which hedged interest payments occur.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized immaterial amounts in Net Income related to hedge ineffectiveness.
At times, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks primarily because we purchase certain fixed assets from foreign suppliers.  In accordance with our risk management policy, we may enter into foreign currency derivative transactions to protect against the risk of increased cash outflows resulting from a foreign currencys appreciation against the dollar.  The accumulated gains or losses related to our foreign currency hedges are reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets into Other Operation and Maintenance expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income over the depreciable lives of the fixed assets that were designated as the hedged items in qualifying foreign currency hedging relationships.  We do not hedge all foreign currency exposure.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized no hedge ineffectiveness related to these derivative transactions.
Cash flow hedges included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008 were:
 
Cash flow hedges included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007 were:
 
The actual amounts that we reclassify from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to Net Income can differ due to market price changes.  As of December 31, 2008, the maximum length of time that we are hedging (with SFAS 133 designated contracts) our exposure to variability in future cash flows related to forecasted transactions is 47 months.
The following table represents the activity in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for derivative contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2008:
Credit Risk
Credit risk is our risk of financial loss if counterparties fail to perform their contractual obligations.  We limit our credit risk by maintaining stringent credit policies whereby we assess a counterpartys creditworthiness prior to transacting with them and continue to assess their creditworthiness on an ongoing basis.  We employ the use of standardized master agreements which may include collateral requirements.  These master agreements facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty.  Cash, letters of credit, and parental/affiliate guarantees may be obtained as security from counterparties in order to mitigate credit risk.  The collateral agreements require a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit in the event an exposure is exceeded in excess of an established threshold.  The threshold represents an unsecured credit limit which may be supported by a parental/affiliate guaranty, as determined in accordance with our credit policy.  In addition, collateral agreements also provide that the failure or inability to post collateral is sufficient cause for termination and liquidation of all positions.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
SFAS 107 Fair Value Measurements
The fair values of Long-term Debt are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues and the current interest rates offered for instruments with similar maturities.  These instruments are not marked-to-market.  The estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that we could realize in a current market exchange.
The book values and fair values of Long-term Debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are summarized in the following tables:
SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements
As described in Note 2, we completed our adoption of SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2009.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.  The adoption of SFAS 157 had an immaterial impact on our financial statements.  The provisions of SFAS 157 are applied prospectively, except for a) changes in fair value measurements of existing derivative financial instruments measured initially using the transaction price under EITF Issue No. 02-3 Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 02-3), b) existing hybrid financial instruments measured initially at fair value using the transaction price and c) blockage discount factors.  Although the statement is applied prospectively upon adoption, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 157 related to EITF 02-3, we recorded an immaterial transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings.  The impact of considering our own credit risk when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives, had an immaterial impact on fair value measurements upon adoption.
In accordance with SFAS 157, assets and liabilities are classified based on the inputs utilized in the fair value measurement.  SFAS 157 provides definitions for two types of inputs: observable and unobservable.  Observable inputs are valuation inputs that reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity.  Unobservable inputs are valuation inputs that reflect the reporting entitys own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information in the circumstances.
As defined in SFAS 157, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). SFAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurement) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurement).
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.  Level 1 inputs primarily consist of exchange traded contracts, listed equities and U.S. government treasury securities that exhibit sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.  If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.  Level 2 inputs primarily consist of OTC broker quotes in moderately active or less active markets, exchange traded contracts where there was not sufficient market activity to warrant inclusion in level 1, OTC broker quotes that are corroborated by the same or similar transactions that have occurred in the market and certain non-exchange-traded debt securities.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.  Unobservable inputs shall be used to measure fair value to the extent that the observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.  Level 3 inputs primarily consist of unobservable market data or are valued based on models and/or assumptions.
Risk Management Contracts include exchange traded, OTC and bilaterally executed derivative contracts.  Exchange traded derivatives, namely futures contracts, are generally fair valued based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and are classified within level 1.  Other actively traded derivative fair values are verified using broker or dealer quotations, similar observable market transactions in either the listed or OTC markets or valued using pricing models where significant valuation inputs are directly or indirectly observable in active markets.  Derivative instruments, primarily swaps, forwards, and options that meet these characteristics are classified within level 2.  Bilaterally executed agreements are derivative contracts entered into directly with third parties, and at times these instruments may be complex structured transactions that are tailored to meet the specific customers energy requirements.  Structured transactions utilize pricing models that are widely accepted in the energy industry to measure fair value.  We use a consistent modeling approach to value similar instruments.  Valuation models utilize various inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, market corroborated inputs (i.e. inputs derived principally from, or correlated to, observable market data) and other observable inputs for the asset or liability.  Where observable inputs are available for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in level 2.  Certain OTC and bilaterally executed derivative instruments are executed in less active markets with a lower availability of pricing information.  In addition, long-dated and illiquid complex or structured transactions or FTRs can introduce the need for internally developed modeling inputs based upon extrapolations and assumptions of observable market data to estimate fair value.  When such inputs have a significant impact on the measurement of fair value, the instrument is categorized in level 3.  In certain instances, the fair values of the transactions included in level 3 that use internally developed model inputs are offset partially or in full, by transactions included in level 2 where observable market data exists for the offsetting transaction.
The following table sets forth by level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008.  As required by SFAS 157, financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.
 
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of net trading derivatives and other investments classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy:
The details of our consolidated income taxes before discontinued operations and extraordinary loss as reported are as follows:
The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated difference between the amount of federal income taxes computed by multiplying book income before income taxes by the federal statutory tax rate and the amount of income taxes reported.
The following table shows elements of the net deferred tax liability and significant temporary differences:
We, along with our subsidiaries, file a consolidated federal income tax return.  The allocation of the AEP Systems current consolidated federal income tax to the AEP System companies allocates the benefit of current tax losses to the AEP System companies giving rise to such losses in determining their current expense.  The tax benefit of the Parent is allocated to our subsidiaries with taxable income.  With the exception of the loss of the Parent, the method of allocation reflects a separate return result for each company in the consolidated group.
We are no longer subject to U.S. federal examination for years before 2000.  We have completed the exam for the years 2001 through 2003 and have issues that we are pursuing at the appeals level.  The returns for the years 2004 through 2006 are presently under audit by the IRS.  Although the outcome of tax audits is uncertain, in managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for potential liabilities resulting from such matters.  In addition, we accrue interest on these uncertain tax positions.  We are not aware of any issues for open tax years that upon final resolution are expected to have a material adverse effect on net income.
We, along with our subsidiaries, file income tax returns in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions.  These taxing authorities routinely examine our tax returns and we are currently under examination in several state and local jurisdictions.  We believe that we have filed tax returns with positions that may be challenged by these tax authorities.  However, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of these audits will materially impact net income.  With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to state, local or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2000.
Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, we recorded interest and penalty expense related to uncertain tax positions in tax expense accounts.  With the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, we began recognizing interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions in interest income or expense as applicable, and penalties in Other Operation and Maintenance.  The impact of this interpretation was an unfavorable adjustment to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings of $17 million.  We reported $10 million and $2 million of interest expense, $21 million and $5 million of interest income and reversed $13 million and $17 million of prior period interest expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  We had approximately $33 million for the receipt of interest accrued at December 31, 2008 and approximately $26 million and $16 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $147 million.  We believe there will be no significant net increase or decrease in unrecognized tax benefits within 12 months of the reporting date.
Federal Tax Legislation
In 2005, the Energy Tax Incentives Act of 2005 was signed into law.  This act created a limited amount of tax credits for the building of IGCC plants.  The credit is 20% of the eligible property in the construction of new plant or 20% of the total cost of repowering of an existing plant using IGCC technology.  In the case of a newly constructed IGCC plant, eligible property is defined as the components necessary for the gasification of coal, including any coal handling and gas separation equipment.  We announced plans to construct two new IGCC plants that may be eligible for the allocation of these credits.  We filed applications for the Mountaineer and Great Bend projects with the DOE and the IRS.  Both projects were certified by the DOE and qualified by the IRS.  However, neither project was allocated credits during this round of credit awards.  After one of the original credit recipients surrendered its credits in the Fall of 2007, the IRS announced a supplemental credit round for the Spring of 2008.  We filed a new application in 2008 for the West Virginia IGCC project and in July 2008 the IRS allocated the project $134 million in credits.  In September 2008, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the IRS concerning the requirements of claiming the credits.
Several tax bills and other legislation with tax-related sections were enacted in 2006 and 2007, including the Pension Protection Act of 2006, Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, the Tax Technical Corrections Act of 2007, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2007 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.  The tax law changes enacted in 2006 and 2007 did not materially affect our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 was signed into law by the President in February 2008.  It provided enhanced expensing provisions for certain assets placed in service in 2008 and a 50% bonus depreciation provision similar to the one in effect in 2003 through 2004 for assets placed in service in 2008.  The enacted provisions did not have a material impact on net income or financial condition, but provided a material favorable cash flow benefit of approximately $200 million.
In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the 2008 Act) was signed into law.  The 2008 Act extended several expiring tax provisions and added new energy incentive provisions.  The legislation impacted the availability of research credits, accelerated depreciation of smart meters, production tax credits and energy efficient commercial building deductions.  We have evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
In February 2009, theAmerican Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 (the 2009 Act) was signed into law.  The 2009 Act extended the bonus depreciation deduction for one year and provides for a long-term extension of the renewable production tax credit for wind energy and other properties.  The 2009 Act also establishes a new investment tax credit for the manufacture of advanced energy property as well as appropriations for advanced energy research projects, carbon capture and storage and gridSMART technology.  We have evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact our net income or financial condition, but is expected to have a positive material impact on cash flows.
 
State Tax Legislation
In June 2005, the Governor of Ohio signed Ohio House Bill 66 into law enacting sweeping tax changes impacting all companies doing business in Ohio.  Most of the significant tax changes phase in over a five-year period, while some of the less significant changes became fully effective July 1, 2005.  Changes to the Ohio franchise tax, nonutility property taxes and the new commercial activity tax are subject to phase-in.  The Ohio franchise tax will fully phase-out over a five-year period beginning with a 20% reduction in state franchise tax for taxable income accrued during 2005.  In 2005, we reversed deferred state income tax liabilities of $83 million that are not expected to reverse during the phase-out.  We recorded $4 million as a reduction to Income Tax Expense and, for the Ohio companies, established a regulatory liability for $57 million pending rate-making treatment in Ohio.  See Ormet section of Note 4 for further discussion.  For those companies in which state income taxes flow through for rate-making purposes, the adjustments reduced the regulatory assets associated with the deferred state income tax liabilities by $22 million.  In November 2006, the PUCO ordered that the $57 million be amortized to income as an offset to power supply contract losses incurred by CSPCo and OPCo for sales to Ormet.  At December 31, 2008, the $57 million regulatory liability was fully amortized.
The Ohio legislation also imposed a new commercial activity tax at a fully phased-in rate of 0.26% on all Ohio gross receipts.  The new tax is being phased-in over a five-year period that began July 1, 2005 at 23% of the full 0.26% rate.  As a result of this new tax, expenses of approximately $9 million, $6 million and $4 million were recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, in Taxes Other Than Income Taxes.
In the second quarter of 2006, the Texas state legislature replaced the existing franchise/income tax with a gross margin tax at a 1% rate for electric utilities.  Overall, the law reduced Texas income tax rates and was effective January 1, 2007.  The new gross margin tax is income-based for purposes of the application of SFAS 109.  Based on the new law, we reviewed deferred tax liabilities with consideration given to the rate changes and changes to the allowed deductible items with temporary differences.  As a result, in the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a net reduction to Deferred Income Taxes on our Consolidated Balance Sheet of $48 million of which $2 million was credited to Income Tax Expense and $46 million was credited to Regulatory Assets based upon the related rate-making treatment.
In July 2007, the Governor of Michigan signed Michigan Senate Bill 0094 (MBT Act) and related companion bills into law providing a comprehensive restructuring of Michigans principal business tax.  The new law is effective January 1, 2008 and replaces the Michigan Single Business Tax that expired at the end of 2007.  The MBT Act is composed of a new tax which will be calculated based upon two components:  (a) a business income tax (BIT) imposed at a rate of 4.95% and (b) a modified gross receipts tax (GRT) imposed at a rate of 0.80%, which will collectively be referred to as the BIT/GRT tax calculation.  The new law also includes significant credits for engaging in Michigan-based activity.
In September 2007, the Governor of Michigan signed House Bill 5198 which amends the MBT Act to provide for a new deduction on the BIT and GRT tax returns equal to the book-tax basis differences triggered as a result of the enactment of the MBT Act.  This new state-only temporary difference will be deducted over a 15-year period on the MBT Act tax returns starting in 2015.  The purpose of the new MBT Act state deduction was to provide companies relief from the recordation of the SFAS 109 Income Tax Liability.  We have evaluated the impact of the MBT Act and the application of the MBT Act will not materially affect our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
In March 2008, the Governor of West Virginia signed legislation providing for, among other things, a reduction in the West Virginia corporate income tax rate from 8.75% to 8.5% beginning in 2009.  The corporate income tax rate could also be reduced to 7.75% in 2012 and 7% in 2013 contingent upon the state government achieving certain minimum levels of shortfall reserve funds.  We have evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact our net income, cash flows or financial condition.
Leases of property, plant and equipment are for periods up to 60 years and require payments of related property taxes, maintenance and operating costs.  The majority of the leases have purchase or renewal options and will be renewed or replaced by other leases.
Lease rentals for both operating and capital leases are generally charged to Other Operation and Maintenance expense in accordance with rate-making treatment for regulated operations.  Capital leases for nonregulated property are accounted for as if the assets were owned and financed.  The components of rental costs are as follows:
The following table shows the property, plant and equipment under capital leases and related obligations recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other and Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Future minimum lease payments consisted of the following at December 31, 2008:
Master Lease Agreements
We lease certain equipment under master lease agreements. GE Capital Commercial Inc. (GE) notified us in November 2008 that they elected to terminate our Master Leasing Agreements in accordance with the termination rights specified within the contract.  In 2010 and 2011, we will be required to purchase all equipment under the lease and pay GE an amount equal to the unamortized value of all equipment then leased.  As a result, the unamortized value of this equipment is reflected in our future minimum lease payments for 2010 ($298 thousand) and 2011 ($195 million).  In December 2008, we signed new master lease agreements with one-year commitment periods that include lease terms of up to 10 years.  We expect to enter into additional replacement leasing arrangements for the equipment affected by this notification prior to the termination dates of 2010 and 2011.
For equipment under the GE master lease agreements that expire prior to 2011, the lessor is guaranteed receipt of up to 87% of the unamortized balance of the equipment at the end of the lease term.  If the fair market value of the leased equipment is below the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term, we are committed to pay the difference between the fair market value and the unamortized balance, with the total guarantee not to exceed 87% of the unamortized balance.  Under the new master lease agreements, the lessor is guaranteed receipt of up to 68% of the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term.  If the actual fair market value of the leased equipment is below the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term, we are committed to pay the difference between the actual fair market value and unamortized balance, with the total guarantee not to exceed 68% of the unamortized balance.  At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential loss for these lease agreements was approximately $20 million assuming the fair market value of the equipment is zero at the end of the lease term.  Historically, at the end of the lease term the fair market value has been in excess of the unamortized balance.
Rockport Lease
AEGCo and I&M entered into a sale-and-leaseback transaction in 1989 with Wilmington Trust Company (Owner Trustee), an unrelated, unconsolidated trustee for Rockport Plant Unit 2 (the Plant).  The Owner Trustee was capitalized with equity from six owner participants with no relationship to AEP or any of its subsidiaries and debt from a syndicate of banks and securities in a private placement to certain institutional investors.
The gain from the sale was deferred and is being amortized over the term of the lease, which expires in 2022.  The Owner Trustee owns the Plant and leases it to AEGCo and I&M.  The lease is accounted for as an operating lease with the payment obligations included in the future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.  The lease term is for 33 years with potential renewal options.  At the end of the lease term, AEGCo and I&M have the option to renew the lease or the Owner Trustee can sell the Plant.  Neither AEGCo, I&M nor AEP has an ownership interest in the Owner Trustee and do not guarantee its debt.  The future minimum lease payments for this sale-and-leaseback transaction as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:
Railcar Lease
In June 2003, AEP Transportation LLC (AEP Transportation), a subsidiary of AEP, entered into an agreement with BTM Capital Corporation, as lessor, to lease 875 coal-transporting aluminum railcars.  The lease is accounted for as an operating lease.  In January 2008, AEP Transportation assigned the remaining 848 railcars under the original lease agreement to I&M (390 railcars) and SWEPCo (458 railcars).  The assignment is accounted for as new operating leases for I&M and SWEPCo.  The initial lease term was five years with three consecutive five-year renewal periods for a maximum lease term of twenty years.  I&M and SWEPCo intend to renew these leases for the full lease term of twenty years, via the renewal options.  The future minimum lease obligations are $20 million for I&M and $23 million for SWEPCo for the remaining railcars as of December 31, 2008.  These obligations are included in the future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.
Under the lease agreement, the lessor is guaranteed that the sale proceeds under a return-and-sale option will equal at least a lessee obligation amount specified in the lease, which declines from approximately 84% under the current five year lease term to 77% at the end of the 20-year term of the projected fair market value of the equipment.  I&M and SWEPCo have assumed the guarantee under the return-and-sale option.  I&Ms maximum potential loss related to the guarantee is approximately $12 million ($8 million, net of tax) and SWEPCos is approximately $13 million ($9 million, net of tax) assuming the fair market value of the equipment is zero at the end of the current five-year lease term.  However, we believe that the fair market value would produce a sufficient sales price to avoid any loss.
We have other railcar lease arrangements that do not utilize this type of financing structure.
Sabine Dragline Lease
In December 2006, Sabine Mining Company (Sabine), an entity consolidated under FIN 46R, entered into a capital lease agreement with a nonaffiliated company to finance the purchase of a $53 million electric dragline for Sabines mining operations.  In 2006, the initial capital outlay for the dragline was $26 million.  Sabine incurred an additional $14 million and $13 million of transportation, assembly and upgrade costs in 2008 and 2007 respectively.  The dragline was completed in August 2008.  For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Sabine paid $1 million and $2 million, respectively, of interim rent prior to the completion in August 2008.  Sabine began quarterly principal and interest payments on the outstanding lease obligation in November 2008.  The capital lease asset was included in Property, Plant and Equipment  Other and Construction Work in Progress on our December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.  The short-term and long-term capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other and Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other on our December 31,  2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The future payment obligations are included in our future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.
I&M Nuclear Fuel Lease
In December 2007, I&M entered into a sale-and-leaseback transaction with Citicorp Leasing, Inc. (CLI), an unrelated, unconsolidated, wholly-owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. to lease nuclear fuel for I&Ms Cook Plant.  In December 2007, I&M sold a portion of its unamortized nuclear fuel inventory to CLI at cost for $85 million.  The lease has a variable rate based on one month LIBOR and is accounted for as a capital lease with lease terms up to 60 months.  The future payment obligations of $57 million are included in our future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.  The net capital lease asset is included in Property, Plant and Equipment  Other and the short-term and long-term capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other and Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other, respectively, on our December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The future minimum lease payments for this sale-and-leaseback transaction as of December 31, 2008 are as follows, based on estimated fuel burn:
AEP Common Stock
We issued 68 thousand, 2.4 million and 2.3 million shares of common stock in connection with our stock option plan during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Set forth below is a reconciliation of common stock share activity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
 
Preferred Stock
Information about the components of preferred stock of our subsidiaries is as follows:
Long-term Debt
 
LONG-TERM DEBT OUTSTANDING AT DECEMBER 31, 2008 IS PAYABLE AS FOLLOWS:
In January 2009, I&M issued $475 million of 7.00% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019.
In January 2009, TCC retired $50 million of 4.98% and $31 million of 5.56% Securitization Bonds due in 2010.
In February 2009, PSO reissued $34 million of 5.25% Pollution Control Bonds due in 2014.
In the first quarter of 2008, bond insurers exposure in connection with developments in the subprime credit market resulted in increasing occurrences of failed auctions for tax-exempt long-term debt sold at auction rates.  Consequently, we chose to exit the auction-rate debt market and reduced our outstanding auction-rate securities from the December 2007 balance by $1.2 billion.  As of December 31, 2008, $272 million of our auction-rate tax-exempt long-term debt, with rates ranging between 2.034% and 13%, remained outstanding with rates reset every 35 days.  The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow us to convert to other short-term variable-rate structures, term-put structures and fixed-rate structures.  As of December 31, 2008, $367 million of the prior auction-rate debt was issued in a weekly variable rate mode supported by letters of credit at variable rates ranging from 0.85% to 1.52%, $495 million was issued at fixed rates ranging from 4.5% to 5.625% and trustees held, on our behalf, approximately $330 million of our reacquired auction-rate tax-exempt long-term debt which we plan to reissue to the public as market conditions permit.
As of December 31, 2008, approximately $218 million of the $272 million of outstanding auction-rate debt relates to a lease structure with JMG that we are unable to refinance without their consent.  The rates for this debt range from 6.388% to 13%.  The initial term for the JMG lease structure matures on March 31, 2010.  We are evaluating whether to terminate this facility prior to maturity.  Termination of this facility requires approval from the PUCO.
Dividend Restrictions
Under the Federal Power Act, AEPs public utility subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends out of stated capital.
Trust Preferred Securities
SWEPCo had a wholly-owned business trust that issued trust preferred securities.  Effective July 1, 2003, the trust was deconsolidated due to the implementation of FIN 46R.  The SWEPCo trust, which held mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities, is reported as two components on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The investment in the trust, which was $3 million as of December 31, 2007, is included in Deferred Charges and Other within Other Noncurrent Assets.  The Junior Subordinated Debentures, in the amount of $113 million as of December 31, 2007, are reported as Notes Payable to Trust within Long-term Debt.  Both the investment in the trust and the Junior Subordinated Debentures were retired in 2008.
Lines of Credit and Short-term Debt
We use our corporate borrowing program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of our subsidiaries.  The corporate borrowing program includes a Utility Money Pool, which funds the utility subsidiaries, and a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds the majority of the nonutility subsidiaries.  In addition, we also fund, as direct borrowers, the short-term debt requirements of other subsidiaries that are not participants in either money pool for regulatory or operational reasons.  As of December 31, 2008, we had credit facilities totaling $3 billion to support our commercial paper program (see Credit Facilities section below).  For the corporate borrowing program, the maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during 2008 was $1.2 billion and the weighted average interest rate of commercial paper outstanding during the year was 3.32%.  No commercial paper was outstanding at December 31, 2008 due to market conditions.  In 2008, we borrowed $2 billion under these credit facilities.  Our outstanding short-term debt was as follows:
Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2008, in support of our commercial paper program, we had two $1.5 billion credit facilities which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $46 million following its bankruptcy.  In March 2008, the credit facilities were amended so that $750 million may be issued under each credit facility as letters of credit.
In April 2008, we entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  Under the facilities, we may issue letters of credit.  As of December 31, 2008, $372 million of letters of credit were issued by subsidiaries under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate Pollution Control Bonds.
Sale of Receivables  AEP Credit
AEP Credit has a sale of receivables agreement with banks and commercial paper conduits.  Under the sale of receivables agreement, AEP Credit sells an interest in the receivables it acquires from affiliated utility subsidiaries to the commercial paper conduits and banks and receives cash.  This transaction constitutes a sale of receivables in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, allowing the receivables to be taken off of AEP Credits balance sheet and our Consolidated Balance Sheets and allowing AEP Credit to repay any debt obligations to the affiliated utility subsidiaries.  We have no ownership interest in the commercial paper conduits and are not required to consolidate these entities in accordance with GAAP.  AEP Credit continues to service the receivables.  We entered into this off-balance sheet transaction to allow AEP Credit to repay its outstanding debt obligations, continue to purchase our operating companies receivables, and accelerate AEP Credits cash collections.
In October 2008, we renewed AEP Credits sale of receivables agreement.  The sale of receivables agreement provides a commitment of $700 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  This agreement will expire in October 2009.  We intend to extend or replace the sale of receivables agreement.  The previous sale of receivables agreement, which expired in October 2008 and was extended until October 2009, provided a commitment of $650 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  Under the previous sale of receivable agreement, the commitment increased to $700 million for the months of August and September to accommodate seasonal demand.  At December 31, 2008, $650 million of commitments to purchase accounts receivable were outstanding under the receivables agreement.  AEP Credit maintains a retained interest in the receivables sold and this interest is pledged as collateral for the collection of receivables sold.  The fair value of the retained interest is based on book value due to the short-term nature of the accounts receivable less an allowance for anticipated uncollectible accounts.
AEP Credit purchases accounts receivable through purchase agreements with CSPCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and a portion of APCo.  Since APCo does not have regulatory authority to sell accounts receivable in all of its regulatory jurisdictions, only a portion of APCos accounts receivable are sold to AEP Credit.
Comparative accounts receivable information for AEP Credit is as follows:
Historical loss and delinquency amounts for the AEP Systems customer accounts receivable managed portfolio is as follows:
Customer accounts receivable retained and securitized for the electric operating companies are managed by AEP Credit.  Miscellaneous accounts receivable have been fully retained and not securitized.
Delinquent customer accounts receivable for the electric utility affiliates that AEP Credit currently factors were $22 million and $30 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  AEP Credits delinquent customer accounts receivable represents accounts greater than 30 days past due.
As previously approved by shareholder vote, the Amended and Restated American Electric Power System Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) authorizes the use of 19,200,000 shares of AEP common stock for various types of stock-based compensation awards, including stock options, to employees.  A maximum of 9,000,000 shares may be used under this plan for full value share awards, which include performance units, restricted shares and restricted stock units.  The Board of Directors and shareholders last approved the LTIP in 2005.  The following sections provide further information regarding each type of stock-based compensation award granted by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (HR Committee).
We adopted SFAS 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payments (SFAS 123R), effective January 1, 2006
.
Stock Options
We did not grant stock options in 2008, 2007 or 2006 but we do have outstanding stock options from grants in earlier periods that vested or were exercised in these years.  The exercise price of all outstanding stock options equaled or exceeded the market price of AEPs common stock on the date of grant.  All outstanding stock options were granted with a ten-year term and generally vested, subject to the participants continued employment, in approximately equal 1/3 increments on January 1 of the year following the first, second and third anniversary of the grant date.  We record compensation cost for stock options over the vesting period based on the fair value on the grant date.  The
st
LTIP does not specify a maximum contractual term for stock options.
The total fair value of stock options vested and the total intrinsic value of options exercised are as follows:
(a) Intrinsic value is calculated as market price at exercise date less the option exercise price.
A summary of AEP stock option transactions during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows:
The following table summarizes information about AEP stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008.
Options Outstanding
(a) Options outstanding are not significantly different from the number of shares expected to vest.
The following table summarizes information about AEP stock options exercisable at December 31, 2008.
 
Options Exercisable
We include the proceeds received from exercised stock options in common stock and paid-in capital.
Performance Units
Our performance units are equal in value to the market value of shares of AEP common stock.  The number of performance units held is multiplied by a performance score to determine the actual number of performance units realized.  The performance score is determined at the end of the performance period based on performance measures, which include both performance and market conditions, established for each grant at the beginning of the performance period by the HR Committee and can range from 0% to 200%.  Performance units are paid in cash or stock at the employees election at the end of a three-year performance and vesting period, unless they are needed to satisfy a participants stock ownership requirement.  In that case, they are mandatorily deferred as AEP Career Shares, a form of phantom stock units, until after the end of the participants AEP career.  AEP Career Shares have a value equivalent to the market value of shares of AEP common stock shares and are paid in cash after the participants termination of employment.  Amounts equivalent to cash dividends on both performance units and AEP Career Shares accrue as additional units.  We recorded compensation cost for performance units over the three-year vesting period.  The liability for both the performance units and AEP Career Shares, recorded in Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, is adjusted for changes in value.  The fair value of performance unit awards is based on the estimated performance score and the current 20-day average closing price of AEP common stock at the date of valuation.
The HR Committee awarded performance units and reinvested dividends on outstanding performance units and AEP Career Shares for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows:
Performance scores and final awards are determined and certified by the HR Committee in accordance with the pre-established performance measures.  The HR Committee has discretion to reduce or eliminate the value of final awards, but may not increase them.  The performance scores for all open performance periods are dependent on two equally-weighted performance measures: three-year total shareholder return measured relative to utility companies in the S&P 500 Index and three-year cumulative earnings per share measured relative to a board-approved target.The value of each performance unit earned equals the average closing price of AEP common stock for the last 20 days of the performance period.
 
In January 2009, the HR Committee certified a performance score for the three-year period ended December 31, 2008 of 120.3%.  As a result, 1,088,302 performance units were earned.  Of this amount 42,214 were mandatorily deferred as AEP Career Shares, 66,415 were voluntarily deferred into the Incentive Compensation Deferral Program and the remaining units were paid in cash.
In January 2008, the HR Committee certified a performance score for the three-year period ended December 31, 2007 of 154.3%.  As a result, 1,508,383 performance units were earned.  Of this amount 313,781 were mandatorily deferred as AEP Career Shares, 68,107 were voluntarily deferred into the Incentive Compensation Deferral Program and the remaining units were paid in cash.
Due to the anticipated 2004 CEO succession, on December 10, 2003, the HR Committee made performance unit grants for the shortened performance period of December 10, 2003 through December 31, 2004.  No performance period ended on December 31, 2006 because this performance period was shorter than the normal three-year period and there were no other performance unit grants in 2003.  In 2005, the HR Committee certified a performance factor of 123.1% for performance units granted on December 10, 2003 and 946,789 performance units were mandatorily deferred into AEP stock units.  These units had a three year vesting period which ended on December 31, 2006, at which time, 917,032 units vested and the remaining units were forfeited due to participant terminations.  Of the 917,032 vested units 388,801 were mandatorily deferred as AEP Career Shares and the remaining units were paid in cash.
The cash payouts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Restricted Shares and Restricted Stock Units
The independent members of the Board of Directors granted 300,000 restricted shares to the Chairman, President and CEO on January 2, 2004 upon the commencement of his AEP employment.  Of these restricted shares, 50,000 vested on January 1, 2005 and 50,000 vested on January 1, 2006.  The remaining 200,000 restricted shares vest, subject to his continued employment, in approximately equal thirds on November 30, 2009, 2010 and 2011.  Compensation cost for restricted shares is measured at fair value on the grant date and recorded over the vesting period. Fair value is determined by multiplying the number of shares granted by the grant date market price of $30.76.  The maximum term for these restricted shares is eight years.  AEP has not granted other restricted shares.  Dividends on these restricted shares are paid in cash.
The HR Committee also grants restricted stock units (RSUs), which generally vest, subject to the participants continued employment, over at least three years in approximately equal annual increments on the anniversaries of the grant date.  Amounts equivalent to dividends paid on RSUs accrue as additional RSUs and vest on the last vesting date associated with the underlying units. Compensation cost is measured at fair value on the grant date and recorded over the vesting period.  Fair value is determined by multiplying the number of units granted by the grant date market price. The maximum contractual term of RSUs is six years from the grant date.
The HR Committee has granted RSUs with performance vesting conditions to certain employees who are integral to our project to design and build proposed IGCC power plants.  In February 2007, the HR Committee granted approximately 12,000 shares of RSUs that vest 10% on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date.  An additional 10% vest on the date the IGCC plant achieves substantial completion.  Another 20% vest on the date the IGCC plant achieves commercial operation.  An additional 20% vest one year after the IGCC plant achieves commercial operation, subject to achievement of plant availability targets.  The remaining 20% vest two years after the IGCC plant achieves commercial operation, subject to achievement of plant availability targets.
In January 2006, the HR Committee granted approximately 11,000 shares of RSUs with performance vesting conditions related to our IGCC project.  Twenty percent of these awards vested on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date.  An additional 20% vest on the date the IGCC plant achieves commercial operation.  The remaining 20% vest one year after the IGCC plant achieves commercial operation, subject to achievement of plant availability targets.
In 2008, the HR Committee did not grant RSUs with performance vesting conditions.
The HR Committee awarded RSUs, including units awarded for dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows:
The total fair value and total intrinsic value of restricted shares and restricted stock units vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
A summary of the status of our nonvested restricted shares and RSUs as of December 31, 2008 and changes during the year ended December 31, 2008 are as follows:
The total aggregate intrinsic value of nonvested restricted shares and RSUs as of December 31, 2008 was $14 million and the weighted average remaining contractual life was 2.62 years.
Other Stock-Based Plans
We also have a Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Nonemployee Directors providing each nonemployee director with AEP stock units as a substantial portion of their quarterly compensation for their services as a director.  Amounts equivalent to cash dividends on the stock units accrue as additional AEP stock units.  The nonemployee directors vest immediately upon award of the stock units.  Stock units are paid in cash upon termination of board service or up to 10 years later if the participant so elects.  Cash payments for stock units are calculated based on the average closing price of AEP common stock for the 20 trading days immediately preceding the payment date.
We recorded the compensation cost for stock units when the units are awarded and adjusted the liability for changes in value based on the current 20-day average closing price of AEP common stock at the date of valuation.
We had no material cash payouts for stock unit distributions for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
The Board of Directors awarded stock units, including units awarded for dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows:
Share-based Compensation Plans
Compensation cost and the actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from compensation cost for share-based payment arrangements recognized in income and total compensation cost capitalized in relation to the cost of an asset for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were no significant modifications affecting any of our share-based payment arrangements.
As of December 31, 2008, there was $70 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the LTIP. Unrecognized compensation cost related to the performance units and AEP Career Shares will change as the fair value is adjusted each period and forfeitures for all award types are realized.  Our unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.78 years.
Cash received from stock options exercised and actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Our practice is to use authorized but unissued shares to fulfill share commitments for stock option exercises and RSU vesting.  Although we do not currently anticipate any changes to this practice, we could use reacquired shares, shares acquired in the open market specifically for distribution under the LTIP or any combination thereof for this purpose.  The number of new shares issued to fulfill vesting RSUs is generally reduced to offset AEPs tax withholding obligation.
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
We provide for depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment, excluding coal-mining properties, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of property, generally using composite rates by functional class as follows:
N.M. = Not Meaningful
We provide for depreciation, depletion and amortization of coal-mining assets over each asset's estimated useful life or the estimated life of each mine, whichever is shorter, using the straight-line method for mining structures and equipment.  We use either the straight-line method or the units-of-production method to amortize mine development costs and deplete coal rights based on estimated recoverable tonnages.  We include these costs in the cost of coal charged to fuel expense.  Prior to 2008, the lignite mine of DHLC was scheduled to be shut down in May 2011.  In December 2007, the LPSC unanimously voted to extend the life of the lignite mine of DHLC through 2016.  In December 2008, we received the final order.  The average amortization rate for coal rights and mine development costs was $0.26 per ton in 2008 and $0.66 per ton in 2007 and 2006.
For cost-based rate-regulated operations, the composite depreciation rate generally includes a component for non-asset retirement obligation (non-ARO) removal costs, which is credited to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization.  Actual removal costs incurred are charged to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization.  Any excess of accrued non-ARO removal costs over actual removal costs incurred is reclassified from Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization and reflected as a regulatory liability.  For nonregulated operations, non-ARO removal costs are expensed as incurred.
Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)
We record ARO in accordance with SFAS 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations and FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations for our legal obligations for asbestos removal and for the retirement of certain ash ponds, wind farms and certain coal mining facilities, as well as for nuclear decommissioning of our Cook Plant.  We have identified, but not recognized, ARO liabilities related to electric transmission and distribution assets, as a result of certain easements on property on which we have assets.  Generally, such easements are perpetual and require only the retirement and removal of our assets upon the cessation of the propertys use.  We do not estimate the retirement for such easements because we plan to use our facilities indefinitely.  The retirement obligation would only be recognized if and when we abandon or cease the use of specific easements, which is not expected.
The following is a reconciliation of the 2008 and 2007 aggregate carrying amounts of ARO:
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our ARO liability was $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, and included $891 million and $846 million, respectively, for nuclear decommissioning of the Cook Plant.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of assets that are legally restricted for purposes of settling the nuclear decommissioning liabilities totaled $1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, relating to the Cook Plant and are recorded in Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalization
Our amounts of allowance for borrowed and equity funds used during construction is summarized in the following table:
Jointly-owned Electric Utility Plants
We have generating units that are jointly-owned with nonaffiliated companies.  We are obligated to pay a share of the costs of these jointly-owned facilities in the same proportion as our ownership interest.  Our proportionate share of the operating costs associated with such facilities is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income and the investments and accumulated depreciation are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets under Property, Plant and Equipment as follows:
In our opinion, the unaudited quarterly information reflects all normal and recurring accruals and adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of our net income for interim periods.  Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of a full years operations because of various factors.  Our unaudited quarterly financial information is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a public utility, OPCo engages in the generation and purchase of electric power, and the subsequent sale, transmission and distribution of that power to 712,000 retail customers in the northwestern, east central, eastern and southern sections of Ohio.  OPCo consolidates JMG Funding LP, a variable interest entity.  As a member of the AEP Power Pool, OPCo shares in the revenues and the costs of the AEP Power Pools sales to neighboring utilities and power marketers.
The cost of the AEP Power Pools generating capacity is allocated among its members based on relative peak demands and generating reserves through the payment of capacity charges and the receipt of capacity revenues.  The capacity reserve relationship of the AEP Power Pool members changes as generating assets are added, retired or sold and relative peak demand changes.  AEP Power Pool members are also compensated for the out-of-pocket costs of energy delivered to the AEP Power Pool and charged for energy received from the AEP Power Pool.  The AEP Power Pool calculates each members prior twelve-month peak demand relative to the sum of the peak demands of all members as a basis for sharing revenues and costs.  The result of this calculation is the MLR, which determines each members percentage share of revenues and costs.
Prior to April 1, 2006, under the SIA, AEPSC allocated physical and financial revenues and expenses from neighboring utilities, power marketers and other power and gas risk management activities among AEP East companies and AEP West companies based on an allocation methodology established at the time of the AEP-CSW merger.  Sharing in a calendar year was based upon the level of such activities experienced for the twelve months ended June 30, 2000, which immediately preceded the merger.  This activity resulted in an AEP East companies and AEP West companies allocation of approximately 91% and 9%, respectively, for revenues and expenses. Allocation percentages in any given calendar year were also based upon the relative generating capacity of the AEP East companies and AEP West companies in the event the pre-merger activity level was exceeded.
Effective April 1, 2006, under the SIA, AEPSC allocates physical and financial revenues and expenses from neighboring utilities, power marketers and other power and gas risk management activities based upon the location of such activity, with margins resulting from trading and marketing activities originating in PJM and MISO generally accruing to the benefit of the AEP East companies and trading and marketing activities originating in SPP and ERCOT generally accruing to the benefit of PSO and SWEPCo.  Margins resulting from other transactions are allocated among the AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo in proportion to the marketing realization directly assigned to each zone for the current month plus the preceding eleven months.  Accordingly, 2006 net income and cash flows reflect nine months of the SIA change.
AEPSC conducts power, gas, coal and emission allowance risk management activities on OPCos behalf.  OPCo shares in the revenues and expenses associated with these risk management activities, as described in the preceding paragraph, with the other AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo.  Power and gas risk management activities are allocated based on the existing power pool agreement and the SIA.  OPCo shares in coal and emission allowance risk management activities based on its proportion of fossil fuels burned by the AEP System.  Risk management activities primarily involve the purchase and sale of electricity under physical forward contracts at fixed and variable prices and to a lesser extent gas, coal and emission allowances.  The electricity, gas, coal and emission allowance contracts include physical transactions, OTC options and financially-settled swaps and exchange-traded futures and options.  AEPSC settles the majority of the physical forward contracts by entering into offsetting contracts.
To minimize the credit requirements and operating constraints of operating within PJM, the AEP East companies as well as KGPCo and WPCo, agreed to a netting of all payment obligations incurred by any of the AEP East companies against all balances due to the AEP East companies, and to hold PJM harmless from actions that any one or more AEP East companies may take with respect to PJM.
OPCo is jointly and severally liable for activity conducted by AEPSC on behalf of the AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo related to purchase power and sale activity pursuant to the SIA.
Results of Operations
2008 Compared to 2007
Net Income decreased $39 million to $232 million in 2008.  The key drivers of the decrease were a $67 million decrease in Gross Margin and a $6 million increase in Operating Expenses and Other, partially offset by a $34 million decrease in Income Tax Expense.
The major components of the decrease in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased power were as follows:
Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
2007 Compared to 2006
Net Income increased $40 million to $271 million in 2007.  The key drivers of the increase was a $107 million increase in Gross Margin, partially offset by a $37 million increase in Operating Expenses and Other and a $30 million increase in Income Tax Expense.
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased power were as follows:
Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
Financial Condition
Credit Ratings
Current ratings for OPCo are as follows:
S&P and Fitch currently have OPCo on stable outlook while Moodys has OPCo on negative outlook.  In January 2009, Moodys placed OPCo on review for possible downgrade due to concerns about financial metrics and pending cost and construction recoveries.  If OPCo receives a downgrade from any of the rating agencies listed above, its borrowing costs could increase and access to borrowed funds could be negatively affected.
Liquidity
In 2008, the financial markets have become increasingly unstable and constrained at both a global and domestic level.  This systemic marketplace distress is impacting OPCos access to capital, liquidity and cost of capital.  The uncertainties in the credit markets could have significant implications on OPCo since it relies on continuing access to capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.
OPCo participates in the Utility Money Pool, which provides access to AEPs liquidity.  OPCo has $78 million of Notes Payable that will mature in 2009.  To the extent refinancing is unavailable due to challenging credit markets in 2009, OPCo will rely upon cash flows from operations and access to the Utility Money Pool to fund its maturities, current operations and capital expenditures.
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for additional discussion of liquidity.
Cash Flow
Cash flows for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Operating Activities
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $486 million in 2008.  OPCo produced Net Income of $232 million during the period and a noncash expense item of $274 million for Depreciation and Amortization.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital and changes in the future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items.  Accounts Payable had a $127 million inflow due to increases in tonnage and prices per ton related to fuel and consumable purchases and also included OPCos December 2008 provision for refund of $62 million to be paid to the AEP West companies as part of the FERCs recent order on the SIA.  Fuel, Materials and Supplies had an $89 million outflow due to price increases.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $576 million in 2007.  OPCo produced Net Income of $271 million during the period and a noncash expense item of $340 million for Depreciation and Amortization.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items, including a $55 million outflow in Accounts Receivable, Net.  Accounts Receivable, Net increased primarily due to an increase in heating degree days and timing differences of payments from customers.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $625 million in 2006.  OPCo produced Net Income of $231 million during the period and a noncash expense item of $322 million for Depreciation and Amortization.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items, including a $116 million inflow in Accounts Receivable, Net.  Accounts Receivable, Net decreased due to the collection of receivables related to power sales to affiliates, settled litigation and emission allowances.
Investing Activities
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $702 million, $924 million and $986 million, respectively, primarily due to Construction Expenditures for environmental upgrades, as well as projects to improve service reliability for transmission and distribution.  Environmental upgrades include the installation of selective catalytic reduction equipment and flue gas desulfurization projects at the Cardinal and Mitchell Plants.  In 2008, environmental upgrades were completed for Unit 1 at the Cardinal Plant.  In 2007, environmental upgrades were completed for Units 1 and 2 at the Mitchell Plant.
Financing Activities
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $222 million in 2008.  OPCo issued $244 million of Pollution Control Bonds and $250 million of Senior Unsecured Notes.  These increases were partially offset by the retirement of $250 million of Pollution Control Bonds, $37 million of Senior Unsecured Notes and $18 million of Notes Payable  Nonaffiliated.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $354 million in 2007.  OPCo issued $400 million of Senior Unsecured Notes and $65 million of Pollution Control Bonds.  OPCo had a net decrease of $80 million in borrowings from the Utility Money Pool.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $362 million in 2006.  OPCo issued $350 million of Senior Unsecured Notes and $65 million of Pollution Control Bonds.  OPCo received a capital contribution from Parent of $70 million.  These amounts were partially offset by a $200 million retirement of affiliated notes payable.
Summary Obligation Information
OPCos contractual cash obligations include amounts reported on OPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets and other obligations disclosed in the footnotes.  The following table summarizes OPCos contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2008:
 
Payments Due by Period
OPCos FIN 48 liabilities of $22 million are not included above because OPCo cannot reasonably estimate the cash flows by period.
AEPs minimum pension funding requirements are not included in the above table.  As of December 31, 2008, the decline in pension asset values will not require AEP to make a contribution in 2009.  AEP will need to make minimum contributions to the pension plan of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011.  However, estimates may vary significantly based on market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the contractual cash obligations table above, OPCo makes additional commitments in the normal course of business.  OPCos commitments outstanding at December 31, 2008 under these agreements are summarized in the table below:
Other
Coal Contract Amendment
In January 2008, OPCo terminated a coal contract for deliveries of coal through 2012 and additional optional tonnage through 2017. The contracted prices were below current market prices. OPCo also entered into a new contract for reduced deliveries of comparable coal for 2009-2010, with an option for tonnage with firm pricing in 2011.  Consideration received by OPCo for the significant tonnage reduction consisted of noncash consideration of approximately $70 million.  A significant portion of the consideration was recognized in 2008 as a decrease to fuel expense.  The remaining amount will be amortized to fuel expense as coal is delivered under the new contract in 2009-2010.
Plaquemine Cogeneration
Facility
In 2000, Juniper Capital L.P. financed AEPs nonregulated ownership interest in the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility (the Facility) near Plaquemine, Louisiana.  AEP subleased the Facility to Dow Chemical Company (Dow).   As outlined in the OPCo Indemnification Agreement with AEP Resources section of Note 15, OPCo entered into a purchase power and sale agreement with Dow and a corresponding indemnification agreement with a nonutility subsidiary of AEP.  As a result, OPCos net income included sales to nonaffiliated companies and offsetting maintenance expense with no effect on OPCos Net Income.  In the fourth quarter of 2006, AEP sold the Facility to Dow.  With the sale of the Facility, OPCo terminated its purchase power and sale agreement with Dow.  This sale did not have an impact on OPCos 2006 net income.  In 2006, the operation of the facility affected revenues, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation, Purchased Electricity for Resale, Other Operation expense and Maintenance expense by approximately $157 million, $134 million, ($7) million, $19 million and $11 million, respectively, with no effect on net income.  These revenues and expenses did not recur in 2007.
Significant Factors
Litigation and Regulatory Activity
In the ordinary course of business, OPCo is involved in employment, commercial, environmental and regulatory litigation.  Since it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, management cannot state what the eventual outcome of these proceedings will be, or what the timing of the amount of any loss, fine or penalty may be.  Management does, however, assess the probability of loss for such contingencies and accrue a liability for cases which have a probable likelihood of loss and the loss amount can be estimated.  For details on regulatory proceedings and pending litigation, see Note 4  Rate Matters and Note 6  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.  Adverse results in these proceedings have the potential to materially affect OPCos net income, financial condition and cash flows.
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for additional discussion of relevant factors.
Critical Accounting Estimates
See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries for a discussion of the estimates and judgments required for regulatory accounting, revenue recognition, the valuation of long-lived assets, pension and other postretirement benefits and the impact of new accounting pronouncements.
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
Market Risks
Risk management assets and liabilities are managed by AEPSC as agent.  The related risk management policies and procedures are instituted and administered by AEPSC.  See complete discussion within AEPs Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk Management Activities section.  The following tables provide information about AEPs risk management activities effect on OPCo.
MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
The following two tables summarize the various mark-to-market (MTM) positions included in OPCos Consolidated  Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 and the reasons for changes in total MTM value as compared to December 31, 2007.
 
Maturity and Source of Fair Value of MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
The following table presents the maturity, by year, of net assets/liabilities to give an indication of when these MTM amounts will settle and generate cash:
 
OPCo is exposed to market fluctuations in energy commodity prices impacting power operations.  Management monitors these risks on future operations and may use various commodity instruments designated in qualifying cash flow hedge strategies to mitigate the impact of these fluctuations on the future cash flows.  Management does not hedge all commodity price risk.
Management uses interest rate derivative transactions to manage interest rate risk related to existing variable rate debt and to manage interest rate exposure on anticipated borrowings of fixed-rate debt.  Management does not hedge all interest rate exposure.
Management uses foreign currency derivatives to lock in prices on certain forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies where deemed necessary, and designates qualifying instruments as cash flow hedges.  Management does not hedge all foreign currency exposure.
The following table provides the detail on designated, effective cash flow hedges included in AOCI on OPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets and the reasons for the changes from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008.  Only contracts designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in AOCI.  Therefore, economic hedge contracts that are not designated as effective cash flow hedges are marked-to-market and included in the previous risk management tables.  All amounts are presented net of related income taxes.
The portion of cash flow hedges in AOCI expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next twelve months is a $2.1 million gain.
Credit Risk
Counterparty credit quality and exposure is generally consistent with that of AEP.
VaR Associated with Risk Management Contracts
Management uses a risk measurement model, which calculates Value at Risk (VaR) to measure commodity price risk in the risk management portfolio.  The VaR is based on the variance-covariance method using historical prices to estimate volatilities and correlations and assumes a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period.  Based on this VaR analysis, at December 31, 2008, a near term typical change in commodity prices is not expected to have a material effect on net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The following table shows the end, high, average, and low market risk as measured by VaR for the years ended:
Management back-tests its VaR results against performance due to actual price moves.  Based on the assumed 95% confidence interval, performance due to actual price moves would be expected to exceed the VaR at least once every 20 trading days.  Managements backtesting results show that its actual performance exceeded VaR far fewer than once every 20 trading days.  As a result, management believes OPCos VaR calculation is conservative.
As OPCos VaR calculation captures recent price moves, management also performs regular stress testing of the portfolio to understand its exposure to extreme price moves.  Management employs a historical-based method whereby the current portfolio is subjected to actual, observed price moves from the last three years in order to ascertain which historical price moves translated into the largest potential mark-to-market loss.  Management then researches the underlying positions, price moves and market events that created the most significant exposure.
Interest Rate Risk
Management utilizes an Earnings at Risk (EaR) model to measure interest rate market risk exposure. EaR statistically quantifies the extent to which OPCos interest expense could vary over the next twelve months and gives a probabilistic estimate of different levels of interest expense.  The resulting EaR is interpreted as the dollar amount by which actual interest expense for the next twelve months could exceed expected interest expense with a one-in-twenty chance of occurrence.  The primary drivers of EaR are from the existing floating rate debt (including short-term debt) as well as long-term debt issuances in the next twelve months.  For 2009, the estimated EaR on OPCos debt portfolio is $35.5 million.
 
 
 
OHIO POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The notes to OPCos financial statements are combined with the notes to financial statements for other registrant subsidiaries.  Listed below are the notes that apply to OPCo.
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Ohio Power Company:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ohio Power Company Consolidated (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.  Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ohio Power CompanyConsolidated as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, effective January 1, 2007. As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, effective December 31, 2006.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been retrospectively adjusted for the adoption of FASB Statement No. 160, " (SFAS 160)."
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 27, 2009
(May 1, 2009 as to the effects of the adoption of SFAS 160 and related disclosure in Notes 2, 12 and 17)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a public utility, SWEPCo engages in the generation and purchase of electric power, and the subsequent sale, transmission and distribution of that power to approximately 471,000 retail customers in its service territory in northeastern Texas, northwestern Louisiana and western Arkansas.  SWEPCo consolidates its wholly-owned subsidiaries Southwest Arkansas Utilities Corporation and Dolet Hills Lignite Company, LLC, a variable interest entity.  SWEPCo also consolidates Sabine Mining Company, a variable interest entity.  As a member of the CSW Operating Agreement with PSO, SWEPCo shares in the revenues and expenses of the members sales to neighboring utilities and power marketers.  SWEPCo also sells electric power at wholesale to other utilities, municipalities and electric cooperatives.
Effective May 1, 2006, the FERC approved the removal of TCC and TNC from the CSW Operating Agreement.  Under the Texas Restructuring Legislation, TCC and TNC completed the final stage of exiting the generation business and ceased serving retail load.  TCC and TNC are no longer involved in the coordinated planning and operation of power supply facilities or share trading and marketing margins, as contemplated by both the CSW Operating Agreement and the SIA.  Consequently, SWEPCos proportionate share of trading and marketing margins increased, although the level of margins depends upon future market conditions.  SWEPCo shares these margins with its customers.
Members of the CSW Operating Agreement are compensated for energy delivered to the other member based upon the delivering members incremental cost plus a portion of the savings realized by the purchasing member that avoids the use of more costly alternatives.  PSO and SWEPCo share the revenues and costs for sales to neighboring utilities and power marketers made by AEPSC on their behalf based upon the relative magnitude of the energy each company provides to make such sales.  SWEPCo shares these margins with its customers.
Prior to April 1, 2006, under the SIA, AEPSC allocated physical and financial revenues and expenses from neighboring utilities, power marketers and other power and gas risk management activities among AEP East companies and AEP West companies based on an allocation methodology established at the time of the AEP-CSW merger.  Sharing in a calendar year was based upon the level of such activities experienced for the twelve months ended June 30, 2000, which immediately preceded the merger.  This activity resulted in an AEP East companies and AEP West companies allocation of approximately 91% and 9%, respectively, for revenues and expenses.  Allocation percentages in any given calendar year were also based upon the relative generating capacity of the AEP East companies and AEP West companies in the event the pre-merger activity level was exceeded.
Effective April 1, 2006, under the SIA, AEPSC allocates physical and financial revenues and expenses from neighboring utilities, power marketers and other power and gas risk management activities based upon the location of such activity, with margins resulting from trading and marketing activities originating in PJM and MISO generally accruing to the benefit of the AEP East companies and trading and marketing activities originating in SPP and ERCOT generally accruing to the benefit of PSO and SWEPCo.  Margins resulting from other transactions are allocated among the AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo in proportion to the marketing realization directly assigned to each zone for the current month plus the preceding eleven months.  Accordingly, 2006 net income and cash flows reflect nine months of the SIA change.
AEPSC conducts power, gas, coal and emission allowance risk management activities on SWEPCos behalf.  SWEPCo shares in the revenues and expenses associated with these risk management activities, as described in the preceding paragraph, with the AEP East companies and PSO.  Power and gas risk management activities are allocated based on the CSW Operating Agreement and the SIA.  SWEPCo shares in coal and emission allowance risk management activities based on its proportion of fossil fuels burned by the AEP System.  Risk management activities primarily involve the purchase and sale of electricity under physical forward contracts at fixed and variable prices and to a lesser extent gas, coal and emission allowances.  The electricity, gas, coal and emission allowance contracts include physical transactions, OTC options and financially-settled swaps and exchange-traded futures and options.  AEPSC settles the majority of the physical forward contracts by entering into offsetting contracts.
Effective January 1, 2007, SWEPCo locked in margins on its ERCOT trading and marketing contracts and transferred commodity price risk to AEPEP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP.  This was achieved by a combination of transferring certain existing ERCOT energy marketing contracts to AEPEP and entering into financial and physical purchase and sale agreements with AEPEP.  SWEPCo will not be a party to new contracts in ERCOT.  As the contracts mature, SWEPCo will realize the fixed margin on the portfolio of ERCOT contracts as it existed on December 31, 2006 and will not be exposed to commodity price risk and resulting income variations for these contracts.
SWEPCo is jointly and severally liable for activity conducted by AEPSC on the behalf of the AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo related to purchase power and sale activity pursuant to the SIA.
Results of Operations
2008 Compared to 2007
Net Income increased $26 million in 2008.  The key drivers of the increase were a $63 million increase in Gross Margin, partially offset by a $22 million increase in Operating Expenses and Other and a $15 million increase in Income Tax Expense.
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased power were as follows:
Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as indicated:
2007 Compared to 2006
Net Income decreased $25 million in 2007.  The key drivers of the decrease were a $26 million decrease in Gross Margin and a $25 million increase in Operating Expenses and Other, partially offset by a $26 million decrease in Income Tax Expense.
The major components of the decrease in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased power were as follows:
Operating Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
Financial Condition
Credit Ratings
Current ratings for SWEPCo are as follows:
S&P and Fitch currently have SWEPCo on stable outlook.  In February 2009, Moodys placed SWEPCo on review for possible downgrade due to concerns about financial metrics and pending cost and construction recoveries.  If SWEPCo receives a downgrade from any of the rating agencies listed above, its borrowing costs could increase and access to borrowed funds could be negatively affected.
Liquidity
In 2008, the financial markets have become increasingly unstable and constrained at both a global and domestic level.  This systemic marketplace distress is impacting SWEPCos access to capital, liquidity and cost of capital.  The uncertainties in the credit markets could have significant implications on SWEPCo since it relies on continuing access to capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.
SWEPCo participates in the Utility Money Pool, which provides access to AEPs liquidity.  SWEPCo will rely upon cash flows from operations and access to the Utility Money Pool to fund its current operations and capital expenditures.
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for additional discussion of liquidity.
Cash Flow
Cash flows for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Operating Activities
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $224 million in 2008.  SWEPCo produced Net Income of $96 million during the period and had a noncash expense item of $145 million for Depreciation and Amortization and $62 million for Deferred Income Taxes.  SWEPCo recorded a Provision for Revenue Refund of $54 million to its customers for off-system sales margins to be received from the AEP East companies as ordered by the FERC related to the SIA.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items.  The $87 million outflow from Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net was the result of higher fuel cost.  The $52 million change in Accounts Receivable, Net was primarily the result of the refund to be received from the AEP East companies related to the SIA.  The $36 million outflow from Accounts Payable was primarily due to a decrease in purchased power payables.  The $25 million outflow from Fuel, Materials and Supplies was primarily due to higher coal and fuel related costs.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $168 million in 2007.  SWEPCo produced Net Income of $70 million during the period and had noncash expense items of $139 million for Depreciation and Amortization and $17 million related to the Provision for Fuel Disallowance recorded as the result of an ALJ ruling in SWEPCos Texas fuel reconciliation proceeding.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items.  The $37 million outflow from Accounts Payable is primarily due to the timing of fuel payments at the end of the year.  The $26 million outflow from Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net is due to under recovery of higher fuel costs.  The $23 million inflow from Margin Deposits was due to decreased trading-related deposits resulting from normal trading activities.  The $21 million inflow from Accounts Receivable, Net was primarily due to the assignment of certain ERCOT contracts to an affiliate company.
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities were $214 million in 2006.  SWEPCo produced Net Income of $95 million during the period and had a noncash expense item of $132 million for Depreciation and Amortization.  The other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital, as well as items that represent future rights or obligations to receive or pay cash, such as regulatory assets and liabilities.  The activity in working capital relates to a number of items.  The $74 million inflow related to Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net was primarily due to the new fuel surcharges effective December 2005 in the Arkansas service territory and in January 2006 in the Texas service territory.  The $67 million inflow from Accounts Payable was the result of higher energy purchases.  The $52 million outflow from Accounts Receivable, Net was primarily due to an increase in the proportionate share of trading and marketing Accounts Receivable as a result of changes in the CSW Operating Agreement and the SIA.  The $40 million outflow from Fuel, Materials and Supplies was the result of increased fuel purchases.  The $24 million outflow for Margin Deposits was due to increased trading-related deposits resulting from the amended SIA.
Investing Activities
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $692 million, $504 million and $323 million, respectively.  The cash outflows during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were comprised primarily of Construction Expenditures related to the construction of the Turk Plant, Mattison Plant and Stall Unit, which are all new generation facilities.  The cash outflows during 2006 were also comprised of Construction Expenditures related to projects for improved transmission and distribution service reliability.
Financing Activities
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $468 million during 2008.  During the year, SWEPCo issued $400 million of Senior Unsecured Notes.  SWEPCo received a Capital Contribution from Parent of $200 million.  SWEPCo retired $160 million of Nonaffiliated Long-term Debt.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $335 million during 2007.  SWEPCo issued $550 million of Senior Unsecured Notes and $25 million in Notes Payable.  SWEPCo retired $90 million of First Mortgage Bonds.  SWEPCo reduced its borrowings from the Utility Money Pool by $187 million and received a Capital Contribution from Parent of $85 million.  SWEPCo also had a net decrease in short-term debt of $17 million.
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities were $109 million during 2006.  SWEPCo had a net increase of $161 million in borrowings from the Utility Money Pool during the fourth quarter.  SWEPCo refinanced (retired and issued) $82 million of Pollution Control Bonds and retired $15 million of long-term debt.  SWEPCo had a net increase in short-term debt of $16 million.  In addition, SWEPCo paid $40 million in common stock dividends to Parent.
Summary Obligation Information
SWEPCos contractual cash obligations include amounts reported on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets and other obligations disclosed in the footnotes.  The following table summarizes SWEPCos contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2008:
 
SWEPCos FIN 48 liabilities of $10 million are not included above because SWEPCo cannot reasonably estimate the cash flows by period.
AEPs minimum pension funding requirements are not included in the above table.  As of December 31, 2008, the decline in pension asset values will not require AEP to make a contribution in 2009.  AEP will need to make minimum contributions to the pension plan of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011.  However, estimates may vary significantly based on market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the contractual cash obligations table above, SWEPCo makes additional commitments in the normal course of business.  SWEPCos commitments outstanding at December 31, 2008 under these agreements are summarized in the table below:
Significant Factors
New Generation
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for additional discussion of relevant factors.
Litigation and Regulatory Activity
In the ordinary course of business, SWEPCo is involved in employment, commercial, environmental and regulatory litigation.  Since it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, management cannot state what the eventual outcome of these proceedings will be, or what the timing of the amount of any loss, fine or penalty may be.  Management does, however, assess the probability of loss for such contingencies and accrue a liability for cases which have a probable likelihood of loss and the loss amount can be estimated.  For details on regulatory proceedings and pending litigation, see Note 4  Rate Matters and Note 6  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.  Adverse results in these proceedings have the potential to materially affect SWEPCos net income, financial condition and cash flows.
Critical Accounting Estimates
See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries for a discussion of the estimates and judgments required for regulatory accounting, revenue recognition, the valuation of long-lived assets, pension and other postretirement benefits and the impact of new accounting pronouncements.
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements
See the Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries section for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
 
 
 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
Market Risks
Risk management assets and liabilities are managed by AEPSC as agent.  The related risk management policies and procedures are instituted and administered by AEPSC.  See complete discussion within AEPs Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk Management Activities section.  The following tables provide information about AEPs risk management activities effect on SWEPCo.
MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
The following two tables summarize the various mark-to-market (MTM) positions included in SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 and the reasons for changes in total MTM value as compared to December 31, 2007.
Maturity and Source of Fair Value of MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
The following table presents the maturity, by year, of net assets/liabilities to give an indication of when these MTM amounts will settle and generate cash:
Management uses interest rate derivative transactions to manage interest rate risk exposure on anticipated borrowings of fixed-rate debt.  Management does not hedge all interest rate exposure.
Management uses foreign currency derivatives to lock in prices on certain forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies where deemed necessary, and designates qualifying instruments as cash flow hedges.  Management does not hedge all foreign currency exposure.
The following table provides the detail on designated, effective cash flow hedges included in AOCI on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets and the reasons for the changes from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008.  Only contracts designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in AOCI.  Therefore, economic hedge contracts that are not designated as effective cash flow hedges are marked-to-market and included in the previous risk management tables.  All amounts are presented net of related income taxes.
 
The portion of cash flow hedges in AOCI expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next twelve months is an $829 thousand loss.
Credit Risk
Counterparty credit quality and exposure is generally consistent with that of AEP.
VaR Associated with Risk Management Contracts
Management uses a risk measurement model, which calculates Value at Risk (VaR) to measure commodity price risk in the risk management portfolio. The VaR is based on the variance-covariance method using historical prices to estimate volatilities and correlations and assumes a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period.  Based on this VaR analysis, at December 31, 2008, a near term typical change in commodity prices is not expected to have a material effect on net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The following table shows the end, high, average, and low market risk as measured by VaR for the years ended:
Management back-tests its VaR results against performance due to actual price moves.  Based on the assumed 95% confidence interval, the performance due to actual price moves would be expected to exceed the VaR at least once every 20 trading days.  Managements backtesting results show that its actual performance exceeded VaR far fewer than once every 20 trading days.  As a result, management believes SWEPCos VaR calculation is conservative.
As SWEPCos VaR calculation captures recent price moves, management also performs regular stress testing of the portfolio to understand SWEPCos exposure to extreme price moves.  Management employs a historical-based method whereby the current portfolio is subjected to actual, observed price moves from the last three years in order to ascertain which historical price moves translated into the largest potential mark-to-market loss.  Management then researches the underlying positions, price moves and market events that created the most significant exposure.
Interest Rate Risk
Management utilizes an Earnings at Risk (EaR) model to measure interest rate market risk exposure. EaR statistically quantifies the extent to which SWEPCos interest expense could vary over the next twelve months and gives a probabilistic estimate of different levels of interest expense.  The resulting EaR is interpreted as the dollar amount by which actual interest expense for the next twelve months could exceed expected interest expense with a one-in-twenty chance of occurrence.  The primary drivers of EaR are from the existing floating rate debt (including short-term debt) as well as long-term debt issuances in the next twelve months.  For 2009, the estimated EaR on SWEPCos debt portfolio is $8.8 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrant Subsidiaries.
 
 
 
The notes to SWEPCos consolidated financial statements are combined with the notes to financial statements for other registrant subsidiaries. Listed below are the notes that apply to SWEPCo.
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Southwestern Electric Power Company:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Southwestern Electric Power Company Consolidated (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.  Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Southwestern Electric Power CompanyConsolidated as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, effective January 1, 2007. As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, effective December 31, 2006.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been retrospectively adjusted for the adoption of FASB Statement No. 160, " (SFAS 160)."
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 27, 2009
(May 1, 2009 as to the effects of the adoption of SFAS 160 and related disclosure in Notes 2, 12 and 17)
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF REGISTRANT SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
ORGANIZATION
The principal business conducted by AEPs Registrant Subsidiaries is the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power.  These companies are subject to regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and maintain accounts in accordance with the FERC and other regulatory guidelines.  These companies are subject to further regulation with regard to rates and other matters by state regulatory commissions.
The Registrant Subsidiaries engage in wholesale electricity marketing and risk management activities in the United States.  In addition, I&M provides barging services to both affiliated and nonaffiliated companies and SWEPCo conducts coal mining operations to fuel certain of its generation facilities.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Rates and Service Regulation
The Registrant Subsidiaries rates are regulated by the FERC and state regulatory commissions in the nine state operating territories in which they operate.  The state regulatory commissions approve retail rates and regulate the retail services and operations of the utility subsidiaries for the generation and supply of power, a majority of transmission energy delivery services and distribution services.  The FERC regulates AEPs, AEPSCs and the Registrant Subsidiaries affiliated transactions, including AEPSC intercompany service billings which are generally at cost, under the 2005 Public Utility Holding Company Act and the Federal Power Act.  The FERC also has jurisdiction over the issuances and acquisitions of securities of the public utility holding company subsidiaries, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric utility or holding company.  A FERC order in 2008 pursuant to the Federal Power Act codified that for non-power goods and services, a non-regulated affiliate can bill a public utility company no more than market while a public utility must bill the higher of cost or market to a non-regulated affiliate.  The state regulatory commissions in Virginia and West Virginia also regulate certain intercompany transactions under their affiliates statutes.
The FERC regulates wholesale power markets and wholesale power transactions.  The Registrant Subsidiaries wholesale power transactions are generally market-based.  They are cost-based regulated when the Registrant Subsidiaries negotiate and file a cost-based contract with the FERC or the FERC determines that the Registrant Subsidiaries have market power in the region where the transaction occurs.  The Registrant Subsidiaries enter into wholesale power supply contracts with various municipalities and cooperatives that are FERC-regulated, cost-based contracts.  SWEPCos and PSOs wholesale power transactions in the SPP region are cost-based due to SWEPCo and PSO having market power in the SPP region.
The FERC also regulates, on a cost basis, the Registrant Subsidiaries wholesale transmission service and rates.  The FERC claims jurisdiction over retail transmission rates when retail rates are unbundled in connection with restructuring.  CSPCos and OPCos retail rates in Ohio, APCos retail rates in Virginia and I&Ms retail rates in Michigan are unbundled.  CSPCos and OPCos retail transmission rates are based on the FERCs Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) rates that are cost-based.  Although APCos retail rates in Virginia and I&Ms retail rates in Michigan are unbundled, retail transmission rates are regulated, on a cost basis, by the state regulatory commissions.  Starting in 2009, APCo may file, and the Virginia SCC shall approve, a rate adjustment clause that passes through charges associated with the FERCs OATT rates to APCos Virginia retail customers.  Bundled retail transmission rates are regulated, on a cost basis, by the state regulatory commissions.
In addition, the FERC regulates the SIA, the Interconnection Agreement, the CSW Operating Agreement, the System Transmission Integration Agreement, the Transmission Equalization Agreement, the Transmission Coordination Agreement and the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement, all of which allocate shared system costs and revenues to the Registrant Subsidiaries that are parties to each agreement.
The state regulatory commissions regulate all of the retail public utility services/operations (generation/power supply, transmission and distribution operations) and rates except in Ohio.  The retail generation/power supply operations and rates for CSPCo and OPCo in Ohio are no longer cost-based regulated.  These rates were subject to RSPs through December 31, 2008.  The PUCO extended these rates until they issue a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the February 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  The ESP rates are under recently enacted legislation, which continues the concept of increasing rates over time to approach market rates.  In 2007, the Virginia legislation ended a transition to market-based rates and returned APCo to cost-based regulation.  See Note 4 for further information of restructuring legislation and its effects on AEP in Ohio and Michigan.
Both the FERC and state regulatory commissions are permitted to review and audit the books and records of any company within a public utility holding company system.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements for APCo, CSPCo and I&M include the Registrant Subsidiary and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  The consolidated financial statements for SWEPCo include the Registrant Subsidiary, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and Sabine (a substantially-controlled variable interest entity (VIE)).  The consolidated financial statements for OPCo include the Registrant Subsidiary and JMG (a substantially-controlled VIE).  Intercompany items are eliminated in consolidation.  Equity investments not substantially-controlled and which the subsidiary is not the primary beneficiary of the entity, that are 50% or less owned are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are reported as Deferred Charges and Other on the balance sheets; equity earnings are included in Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on the statements of income.  For years, CSPCo, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo have had ownership interests in generating units that are jointly-owned with nonaffiliated companies.  The proportionate share of the operating costs associated with such facilities is included in the income statements and the assets and liabilities are reflected in the balance sheets.  See Variable Interest Entities section of Note 15.
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As cost-based rate-regulated electric public utility companies, the Registrant Subsidiaries financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  In accordance with SFAS 71, regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and income with its passage to customers through the reduction of regulated revenues.  Due to the commencement of legislatively required restructuring and a transition to customer choice and market-based rates, certain affected Registrant Subsidiaries discontinued the application of SFAS 71, regulatory accounting, for the generation portion of their business as follows: in Ohio for OPCo and CSPCo in September 2000, in Virginia for APCo in June 2000 and the Texas portion of SWEPCo in September 1999.  In 2007, the Virginia legislature amended its restructuring legislation to provide for the re-regulation of generation and supply business and rates on a cost basis.  SFAS 101, Regulated Enterprises  Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement No. 71 requires the recognition of an impairment of stranded regulatory assets and stranded plants costs if they are not recoverable in regulated rates.  In addition, an enterprise is required to eliminate from its balance sheet the effects of any actions of regulators that had been recognized as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities pursuant to SFAS 71.  Such impairments and adjustments arising from the discontinuance or reapplication of SFAS 71 are classified by SFAS 101 as an extraordinary item.  Consistent with SFAS 101, APCo recorded an extraordinary reduction in earnings and shareholders equity from the reapplication of SFAS 71 regulatory accounting in 2007 resulting from the re-regulation of APCos generation and supply rates on a cost basis.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  These estimates include, but are not limited to, inventory valuation, allowance for doubtful accounts, long-lived asset impairment, unbilled electricity revenue, valuation of long-term energy contracts, the effects of regulation, long-lived asset recovery, the effects of contingencies and certain assumptions made in accounting for pension and postretirement benefits.  The estimates and assumptions used are based upon managements evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements.  Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Equity Investments
Electric utility property, plant and equipment are stated at original purchase cost.  Property, plant and equipment of nonregulated operations and equity investments are stated at fair market value at acquisition (or as adjusted for any applicable impairments) plus the original cost of property acquired or constructed since the acquisition, less disposals.  Additions, major replacements and betterments are added to the plant accounts.  Normal and routine retirements from the plant accounts, net of salvage, are charged to accumulated depreciation for both cost-based rate-regulated and nonregulated operations under the group composite method of depreciation.  The group composite method of depreciation assumes that on average, asset components are retired at the end of their useful lives and thus there is no gain or loss.  The equipment in each primary electric plant account is identified as a separate group.  Under the group composite method of depreciation, continuous interim routine replacements of items such as boiler tubes, pumps, motors, etc. result in the original cost, less salvage, being charged to accumulated depreciation.  For the nonregulated generation assets, a gain or loss would be recorded if the retirement is not considered an interim routine replacement.  The depreciation rates that are established for the generating plants take into account the past history of interim capital replacements and the amount of salvage received.  These rates and the related lives are subject to periodic review.  Removal costs are charged to regulatory liabilities for cost-based rate-regulated operations and charged to expense for nonregulated operations.  The costs of labor, materials and overhead incurred to operate and maintain the plants are included in operating expenses.
Long-lived assets are required to be tested for impairment when it is determined that the carrying value of the assets may no longer be recoverable or when the assets meet the held for sale criteria under SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  Equity investments are required to be tested for impairment when it is determined there may be an other than temporary loss in value.
The fair value of an asset or investment is the amount at which that asset or investment could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, as opposed to a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets or investments in active markets, fair value is estimated using various internal and external valuation methods including cash flow analysis and appraisals.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalization
AFUDC represents the estimated cost of borrowed and equity funds used to finance construction projects that is capitalized and recovered through depreciation over the service life of regulated electric utility plant.  For nonregulated operations, including generating assets in Ohio and Texas, effective with the discontinuance of SFAS 71 regulatory accounting, interest is capitalized during construction in accordance with SFAS 34, Capitalization of Interest Costs.
Valuation of Nonderivative Financial Instruments
The book values of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Other Cash Deposits, Accounts Receivable, Short-term Debt and Accounts Payable approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.  The book value of the pre-April 1983 spent nuclear fuel disposal liability for I&M approximates the best estimate of its fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and Cash Equivalents include temporary cash investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Other Cash Deposits
Other Cash Deposits include funds held by trustees primarily for environmental construction expenditures.
Inventory
Fossil fuel inventories are carried at average cost for APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo.  OPCo and CSPCo value fossil fuel inventories at the lower of average cost or market.  Materials and supplies inventories are carried at average cost.
Accounts Receivable
Customer accounts receivable primarily include receivables from wholesale and retail energy customers, receivables from energy contract counterparties related to risk management activities and customer receivables primarily related to other revenue-generating activities.
Revenue is recognized from electric power sales when power is delivered to customers.  To the extent that deliveries have occurred but a bill has not been issued, the Registrant Subsidiaries accrue and recognize, as Accrued Unbilled Revenues, an estimate of the revenues for energy delivered since the last billing.
AEP Credit factors accounts receivable through purchase agreements with CSPCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and a portion of APCo.  Since APCo does not have regulatory authority to sell accounts receivable in its West Virginia regulatory jurisdiction, only a portion of APCos accounts receivable are sold to AEP Credit.  AEP Credit has a sale of receivables agreement with banks and commercial paper conduits.  Under the sale of receivables agreement, AEP Credit sells an interest in the receivables it acquires to the commercial paper conduits and banks and receives cash.  This transaction constitutes a sale of receivables in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, allowing the receivables to be removed from the companys balance sheet (see Sale of Receivables - AEP Credit section of Note 14).
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Significant Customers
The Registrant Subsidiaries do not have any significant customers that comprise 10% or more of their Operating Revenues as of December 31, 2008.
The Registrant Subsidiaries monitor credit levels and the financial condition of their customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk.  The regulatory commissions allow recovery in rates for a reasonable level of bad debt costs.  Management believes adequate provision for credit loss has been made in the accompanying registrant financial statements.
Deferred Fuel Costs
The cost of fuel and related emission allowances and emission control chemicals/consumables is charged to Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation expense when the fuel is burned or the allowance or consumable is utilized.  The cost of fuel also includes the amortization of nuclear fuel costs which are computed primarily on the units-of-production method.  Where applicable under governing state regulatory commission retail rate orders, fuel cost over-recoveries (the excess of fuel revenues billed to customers over applicable fuel costs incurred) are deferred as current regulatory liabilities and under-recoveries (the excess of applicable fuel costs incurred over fuel revenues billed to customers) are deferred as current regulatory assets.  These deferrals are amortized when refunded or when billed to customers in later months with the regulators review and approval.  The amount of an over-recovery or under-recovery can also be affected by actions of regulators.  On a routine basis, state regulatory commissions audit the Registrant Subsidiaries fuel cost calculations and deferrals.  When a fuel cost disallowance becomes probable, the Registrant Subsidiaries adjust their deferrals and record provisions for estimated refunds to recognize these probable outcomes.  Fuel cost over-recovery and under-recovery balances are classified as noncurrent when the fuel clauses have been suspended or terminated.
In general, changes in fuel costs in Indiana (beginning July 1, 2007) and Michigan for I&M, Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas for SWEPCo, Oklahoma for PSO and Virginia and West Virginia (beginning July 1, 2006) for APCo are reflected in rates in a timely manner through the fuel cost adjustment clauses in place in those states.  All of the profits from off-system sales are shared with customers through fuel clauses in West Virginia (beginning in July 1, 2006).  A portion of profits from off-system sales are shared with customers through fuel clauses in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arkansas, Virginia (beginning September 1, 2007) and in some areas of Michigan.  Where fuel clauses have been eliminated due to the transition to market pricing (Ohio effective January 1, 2001), changes in fuel costs impact earnings unless recovered in the sales price for electricity.  In other state jurisdictions (prior to July 1, 2007 in Indiana and prior to July 1, 2006 in West Virginia), where fuel clauses were capped, frozen or suspended for a period of years, fuel costs impacted earnings.
Revenue Recognition
Regulatory Accounting
The financial statements of the Registrant Subsidiaries with cost-based rate-regulated operations reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues in the same accounting period and by matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates.  Regulatory liabilities or regulatory assets are also recorded for unrealized MTM gains or losses that occur due to changes in the fair value of physical and/or financial contracts that are derivatives and that are subject to the regulated ratemaking process when realized.
When regulatory assets are probable of recovery through regulated rates, the Registrant Subsidiaries record them as assets on the balance sheet.  The Registrant Subsidiaries test for probability of recovery at each balance sheet date or whenever new events occur.  Examples include the issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  If it is determined that recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, the Registrant Subsidiaries write off that regulatory asset as a charge against income.
Traditional Electricity Supply and Delivery Activities
The Registrant Subsidiaries recognize revenues from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services.  The Registrant Subsidiaries recognize the revenues in the financial statements upon delivery of the energy to the customer and include unbilled as well as billed amounts.  In accordance with the applicable state commission regulatory treatment, PSO and SWEPCo do not record the fuel portion of unbilled revenue.
Most of the power produced at the generation plants of the AEP East companies is sold to PJM, the RTO operating in the east service territory.  The AEP East companies purchase power from PJM to supply power to their customers.  These power sales and purchases are reported on a net basis as revenues in the financial statements.  Other RTOs in which the Registrant Subsidiaries operate do not function in the same manner as PJM.  They function as balancing organizations and not as exchanges.
Physical energy purchases including those from RTOs that are identified as non-trading, but excluding PJM purchases described in the preceding paragraph, are accounted for on a gross basis in Purchased Electricity for Resale in the financial statements.
In general, the Registrant Subsidiaries record expenses upon receipt of purchased electricity and when expenses are incurred, with the exception of certain power purchase contracts that are derivatives and accounted for using MTM accounting where generation/supply rates are not cost-based regulated, such as in Ohio for CSPCo and OPCo and Texas for SWEPCo.  In jurisdictions where the generation/supply business is subject to cost-based regulation, the unrealized MTM amounts are deferred as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains).
For power purchased under derivative contracts in AEPs west zone where PSO and SWEPCo are short capacity, they recognize as revenues the unrealized gains and losses (other than those subject to regulatory deferral) that result from measuring these contracts at fair value during the period before settlement.  If the contract results in the physical delivery of power from a RTO or any other counterparty, PSO and SWEPCo reverse the previously recorded unrealized gains and losses from MTM valuations and record the settled amounts gross as Purchased Energy for Resale.  If the contract does not result in physical delivery, PSO and SWEPCo reverse the previously recorded unrealized gains and losses from MTM valuations and record the settled amounts as revenues in the financial statements on a net basis.
Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities
AEPSC, on behalf of the Registrant Subsidiaries and KPCo, engages in wholesale electricity, coal, natural gas and emission allowances marketing and risk management activities focused on wholesale markets where the AEP System owns assets and adjacent markets.  These activities include the purchase and sale of energy under forward contracts at fixed and variable prices and the buying and selling of financial energy contracts which include exchange traded futures and options, and over-the-counter options and swaps.  Certain energy marketing and risk management transactions are with RTOs.
The Registrant Subsidiaries recognize revenues and expenses from wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are not derivatives upon delivery of the commodity.  The Registrant Subsidiaries use MTM accounting for wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are derivatives unless the derivative is designated in a qualifying cash flow hedge relationship or a normal purchase or sale.  For CSPCo and OPCo, the unrealized gains and losses on wholesale marketing and risk management transactions that are accounted for using MTM are included in revenues on a net basis on the respective income statements.  For APCo, I&M, PSO and a portion of SWEPCo, who are subject to cost-based regulation, the unrealized MTM amounts are deferred as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains).
The Registrant Subsidiaries include realized gains and losses on wholesale marketing and risk management transactions in revenues on a net basis on their income statements.  Unrealized MTM gains and losses are included on the balance sheets as Risk Management Assets or Liabilities as appropriate.
Certain qualifying wholesale marketing and risk management derivatives transactions are designated as hedges of future cash flows as a result of forecasted transactions (cash flow hedge).  The Registrant Subsidiaries initially record the effective portion of the cash flow hedges gain or loss as a component of AOCI.  When the forecasted transaction is realized and affects net income, the Registrant Subsidiaries subsequently reclassify the gain or loss on the hedge from AOCI into revenues or expenses within the same financial statement line item as the forecasted transaction on their income statements.  For CSPCo and OPCo, the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognized in revenues or expense in the financial statements immediately.  APCo, I&M, PSO, and a portion of SWEPCo, who are subject to cost-based regulation, defer the ineffective portion as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities (for gains).  See Cash Flow Hedging Strategies section of Note 11.
Levelization of Nuclear Refueling Outage Costs
In order to match costs with nuclear refueling cycles, I&M defers incremental operation and maintenance costs associated with periodic refueling outages at its Cook Plant and amortizes the costs over the period beginning with the month following the start of each units refueling outage and lasting until the end of the month in which the same units next scheduled refueling outage begins.  I&M adjusts the amortization amount as necessary to ensure full amortization of all deferred costs by the end of the refueling cycle.
Maintenance
The Registrant Subsidiaries expense maintenance costs as incurred.  If it becomes probable that the Registrant Subsidiaries will recover specifically-incurred costs through future rates, a regulatory asset is established to match the expensing of those maintenance costs with their recovery in cost-based regulated revenues.  PSO defers distribution tree trimming costs above the level included in base rates and amortizes the costs commensurate with recovery through a rate rider in Oklahoma.  PSO also amortizes deferred ice storm costs commensurate with their recovery through a rate rider.
Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits
The Registrant Subsidiaries use the liability method of accounting for income taxes.  Under the liability method, deferred income taxes are provided for all temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities which will result in a future tax consequence.
When the flow-through method of accounting for temporary differences is reflected in regulated revenues (that is, when deferred taxes are not included in the cost of service for determining regulated rates for electricity), deferred income taxes are recorded and related regulatory assets and liabilities are established to match the regulated revenues and tax expense.
Investment tax credits are accounted for under the flow-through method except where regulatory commissions have reflected investment tax credits in the rate-making process on a deferral basis.  Investment tax credits that have been deferred are amortized over the life of the plant investment.
The Registrant Subsidiaries account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FIN 48.  Effective with the adoption of FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrant Subsidiaries classify interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions as interest expense or income as appropriate and classify penalties as Other Operation.
Excise Taxes
The Registrant Subsidiaries, as agents for some state and local governments, collect from customers certain excise taxes levied by those state or local governments on customers.  The Registrant Subsidiaries do not record these taxes as revenue or expense.
Debt and Preferred Stock
Gains and losses from the reacquisition of debt used to finance regulated electric utility plants are deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the reacquired debt in accordance with their rate-making treatment unless the debt is refinanced.  If the reacquired debt associated with the regulated business is refinanced, the reacquisition costs attributable to the portions of the business that are subject to cost-based regulatory accounting are generally deferred and amortized over the term of the replacement debt consistent with its recovery in rates.  Some jurisdictions require that these costs be expensed upon reacquisition.  The Registrant Subsidiaries report gains and losses on the reacquisition of debt for operations that are not subject to cost-based rate regulation in Interest Expense.
Debt discount or premium and debt issuance expenses are deferred and amortized generally utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related debt.  The straight-line method approximates the effective interest method and is consistent with the treatment in rates for regulated operations.  The net amortization expense is included in Interest Expense.
Where reflected in rates, redemption premiums paid to reacquire preferred stock of certain Registrant Subsidiaries are included in paid-in capital and amortized to retained earnings commensurate with their recovery in rates.  The excess of par value over costs of preferred stock reacquired is credited to paid-in capital and reclassified to retained earnings upon the redemption of the entire preferred stock series.  The excess of par value over the costs of reacquired preferred stock for nonregulated subsidiaries is credited to retained earnings upon reacquisition.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
SWEPCo is the only Registrant Subsidiary with an intangible asset with a finite life.  SWEPCo amortizes the asset over its estimated life to its residual value (see Note 3).  The Registrant Subsidiaries have no recorded goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
Emission Allowances
The Registrant Subsidiaries record emission allowances at cost, including the annual SO and NO emission allowance entitlements received at no cost from the Federal EPA and States. They follow the inventory model for these allowances.  Allowances expected to be consumed within one year are reported in Materials and Supplies for all of the Registrant Subsidiaries except CSPCo who reflects allowances in Emission Allowances.  Allowances with expected consumption beyond one year are included in Other Noncurrent Assets  Deferred Charges and Other.  These allowances are consumed in the production of energy and are recorded in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation at an average cost.  Allowances held for speculation are included in Current Assets  Prepayments and Other for all the Registrant Subsidiaries except CSPCo, who reflects allowances held for speculation in Emission Allowances.  The purchases and sales of allowances are reported in the Operating Activities section of the Statements of Cash Flows.  The net margin on sales of emission allowances is included in Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution Revenues for nonaffiliated transactions and in Sales to AEP Affiliates Revenues for affiliated transactions because of its integral nature to the production process of energy and the Registrant Subsidiaries revenue optimization strategy for their operations.  The net margin on sales of emission allowances affects the determination of deferred fuel costs and the amortization of regulatory assets for certain jurisdictions.
2
x
Nuclear Trust Funds
Nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel trust funds represent funds that regulatory commissions allow I&M to collect through rates to fund future decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal liabilities.  By rules or orders, the IURC, the MPSC and the FERC established investment limitations and general risk management guidelines.  In general, limitations include:
I&M maintains trust funds for each regulatory jurisdiction.  These funds are managed by external investment managers who must comply with the guidelines and rules of the applicable regulatory authorities. The trust assets are invested to optimize the net of tax earnings of the trust giving consideration to liquidity, risk, diversification, and other prudent investment objectives.
I&M records securities held in these trust funds in Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on its Consolidated Balance Sheet.  I&M records these securities at market value.  I&M classifies securities in the trust funds as available-for-sale due to their long-term purpose.  Other-than-temporary impairments are considered realized losses as I&M does not make specific investment decisions regarding the assets held in trusts.  They reduce the cost basis of the securities which will affect any future unrealized gain or realized gains or losses.  I&M records unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairments from securities in these trust funds as adjustments to the regulatory liability account for the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and to regulatory assets or liabilities for the spent nuclear fuel disposal trust funds in accordance with their treatment in rates.  See Note 9 for additional discussion of nuclear matters.
Comprehensive Income
(Loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the change in equity (net assets) of a business enterprise during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from nonowner sources.  It includes all changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners.  Comprehensive income (loss) has two components: net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss).
Components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI)
AOCI is included on the balance sheets in the equity section.  AOCI for the Registrant Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is shown in the following table:
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo are wholly-owned subsidiaries of AEP.  Therefore, none are required to report EPS.
Reclassifications
Certain prior period financial statement items have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.  See FSP FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 section of Note 2 for discussion of changes in netting certain balance sheet amounts.  These reclassifications had no impact on the Registrant Subsidiaries previously reported net income or changes in shareholders equity.  See SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements section of Note 2.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Upon issuance of final pronouncements, management reviews the new accounting literature to determine its relevance, if any, to the Registrant Subsidiaries business.  The follow represents a summary of final pronouncements that management has determined relate to the Registrant Subsidiaries operations.
Pronouncements Adopted in 2008
The following standards were effective during 2008.  Consequently, the financial statements and footnotes reflect their impact.
SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157)
The Registrant Subsidiaries partially adopted SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-1 Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13 (SFAS 157-1) which amends SFAS 157 to exclude SFAS 13 Accounting for Leases (SFAS 13) and other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements for purposes of lease classification or measurement under SFAS 13.  SFAS 157-1 was effective upon issuance and had an immaterial impact on the financial statements.
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-2 Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (SFAS 157-2) which delays the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually).  The Registrant Subsidiaries fully adopted SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2009 for items within the scope of SFAS 157-2.  The adoption of SFAS 157-2 had an immaterial impact on the financial statements.
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157-3 Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active which clarifies application of SFAS 157 in markets that are not active and provides an illustrative example.  The FSP was effective upon issuance.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements.
See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements Section of Note 11 for further information.
SFAS 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159)
The FASB permitted entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  The standard also established presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparison between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities.  If the fair value option is elected, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value is reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.  The statement is applied prospectively upon adoption.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 159 effective January 1, 2008.  At adoption, the Registrant Subsidiaries did not elect the fair value option for any assets or liabilities.
SFAS 162 The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS 162)
In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 162, clarifying the sources of generally accepted accounting principles in descending order of authority.  The statement specifies that the reporting entity, not its auditors, is responsible for its compliance with GAAP.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 162 in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements.
EITF Issue No. 06-10 Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements
(EITF 06-10)
In March 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-10, a consensus on
collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements in which an employee owns and controls the insurance policy.  Under EITF 06-10, an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if the employer agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employee's retirement or to provide the employee with a death benefit based on a substantive arrangement with the employee.  In addition, an employer should recognize and measure an asset based on the nature and substance of the collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement.  EITF 06-10 requires recognition of the effects of its application as either (a) a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings or other components of equity or net assets in the statement of financial position at the beginning of the year of adoption or (b) retrospective application to all prior periods.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 06-10 effective January 1, 2008.  The impact of this standard was an unfavorable cumulative effect adjustment, net of tax, to beginning retained earnings as follows:
EITF Issue No. 06-11 Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards
(EITF 06-11)
In June 2007, the FASB addressed the recognition of income tax benefits of dividends on employee share-based compensation.  Under EITF 06-11, a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and are paid to employees for equity-classified nonvested equity shares, nonvested equity share units and outstanding equity share options should be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 06-11 effective January 1, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on the financial statements.
 
FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161 (FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4)
 
In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 amending SFAS 133 and FIN 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. Under the SFAS 133 requirements, the seller of a credit derivative shall disclose the following information for each derivative, including credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument, even if the likelihood of payment is remote:
Further, the standard requires the disclosure of current payment status/performance risk of all FIN 45 guarantees.  In the event an entity uses internal groupings, the entity shall disclose how those groupings are determined and used for managing risk.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements and footnote disclosures.
FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities (FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8)
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 amending SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and FIN 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  Under the requirements, the transferor of financial assets in the securitization or asset-backed financing arrangement must disclose the following:
The FIN 46R amendments contain disclosure requirements for a public enterprise that (a) is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE), (b) holds a significant variable interest in a VIE but is not the primary beneficiary or (c) is a sponsor that holds a variable interest in a VIE. The principle objectives of the disclosures required by this standard are to provide financial statement users an understanding of:
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements but increased the footnote disclosures for variable interest entities.  See Variable Interest Entities section of Note 15.
FSP FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 (FSP FIN 39-1)
In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1 amending FIN 39 Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts by replacing the interpretations definition of contracts with the definition of derivative instruments per SFAS 133.  The amendment requires entities that offset fair values of derivatives with the same party under a netting agreement to also net the fair values (or approximate fair values) of related cash collateral.  The entities must disclose whether or not they offset fair values of derivatives and related cash collateral and amounts recognized for cash collateral payables and receivables at the end of each reporting period.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the standard effective January 1, 2008.  This standard changed the method of netting certain balance sheet amounts and reduced assets and liabilities.  It requires retrospective application as a change in accounting principle.  Consequently, the Registrant Subsidiaries reclassified the following amounts on their December 31, 2007 balance sheets as shown:
For certain risk management contracts, the Registrant Subsidiaries are required to post or receive cash collateral based on third party contractual agreements and risk profiles.  For the December 31, 2008 balance sheets, the Registrant Subsidiaries netted collateral received from third parties against short-term and long-term risk management assets and cash collateral paid to third parties against short-term and long-term risk management liabilities as follows:
 
Pronouncements Adopted During The First Quarter of 2009
The following standards are effective during the first quarter of 2009.  Consequently, their impact will be reflected in the first quarter of 2009 financial statements when filed.  The following paragraphs discuss their expected impact on future financial statement and footnote disclosures.
SFAS 141 (revised 2007) Business Combinations (SFAS 141R)
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R, improving financial reporting about business combinations and their effects.  It established how the acquiring entity recognizes and measures the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, goodwill acquired, any gain on bargain purchases and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity.  SFAS 141R no longer allows acquisition-related costs to be included in the cost of the business combination, but rather expensed in the periods they are incurred, with the exception of the costs to issue debt or equity securities which shall be recognized in accordance with other applicable GAAP.  The standard requires disclosure of information for a business combination that occurs during the accounting period or prior to the issuance of the financial statements for the accounting period.  SFAS 141R can affect tax positions on previous acquisitions.  The Registrant Subsidiaries do not have any such tax positions that result in adjustments.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 141R effective January 1, 2009.  It is effective prospectively for business combinations with an acquisition date on or after January 1, 2009.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will apply it to any future business combinations.
SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160)
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160, modifying reporting for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in consolidated financial statements.  The statement requires noncontrolling interest be reported in equity and establishes a new framework for recognizing net income or loss and comprehensive income by the controlling interest.  Upon deconsolidation due to loss of control over a subsidiary, the standard requires a fair value remeasurement of any remaining noncontrolling equity investment to be used to properly recognize the gain or loss.  SFAS 160 requires specific disclosures regarding changes in equity interest of both the controlling and noncontrolling parties and presentation of the noncontrolling equity balance and income or loss for all periods presented.
The Registrant Subsidiaries have herein retrospectively adopted SFAS 160.  The adoption of SFAS 160 had no impact on APCo, CSPCo, I&M and PSO.  The retrospective application of this standard impacted the other Registrant Subsidiaries as follows:
OPCo:
SWEPCo:
 
In addition, we adjusted references in these items in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements.
SFAS 161 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 161)
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, enhancing disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  Affected entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how an entity accounts for derivative instruments and related hedged items and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.  The standard requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 161 effective January 1, 2009.  This standard will increase the disclosure requirements related to derivative instruments and hedging activities in future reports.
In September 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on liabilities with third-party credit enhancements when the liability is measured and disclosed at fair value.  The consensus treats the liability and the credit enhancement as two units of accounting.  Under the consensus, the fair value measurement of the liability does not include the effect of the third-party credit enhancement.  Consequently, changes in the issuers credit standing without the support of the credit enhancement affect the fair value measurement of the issuers liability.  Entities will need to provide disclosures about the existence of any third-party credit enhancements related to their liabilities.  In the period of adoption, entities must disclose the valuation method(s) used to measure the fair value of liabilities within its scope and any change in the fair value measurement method that occurs as a result of its initial application.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 08-5 effective January 1, 2009.  It will be applied prospectively with the effect of initial application included as a change in fair value of the liability in the period of adoption.  The adoption of this standard will impact the financial statements in the 2009 Annual Report as the Registrant Subsidiaries report fair value of long-term debt annually.
EITF Issue No. 08-6 Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations (EITF 08-6)
In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on equity method investment accounting including initial and allocated carrying values and subsequent measurements.  It requires initial carrying value be determined using the SFAS 141R cost allocation method.  When an investee issues shares, the equity method investor should treat the transaction as if the investor sold part of its interest.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 08-6 effective January 1, 2009 with no impact on the financial statements.  It was applied prospectively.
FSP SFAS 142-3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (SFAS 142-3)
In April 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 142-3 amending factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.  The standard is expected to improve consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and the period of expected cash flows used to measure its fair value.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 142-3 effective January 1, 2009.  The guidance is prospectively applied to intangible assets acquired after the effective date.  The standards disclosure requirements are applied prospectively to all intangible assets as of January 1, 2009.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements.
Pronouncements Effective in the Future
The following standards will be effective in the future and their impacts disclosed at that time.
FSP SFAS 132R-1 Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP SFAS 132R-1)
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 132R-1 providing additional disclosure guidance for pension and OPEB plan assets.  The rule requires disclosure of investment policy including target allocations by investment class, investment goals, risk management policies and permitted or prohibited investments.  It specifies a minimum of investment classes by further dividing equity and debt securities by issuer grouping.  The standard adds disclosure requirements including hierarchical classes for fair value and concentration of risk.
This standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Management expects this standard to increase the disclosure requirements related to AEPs benefit plans.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will adopt the standard effective for the 2009 Annual Report.
Future Accounting Changes
The FASBs standard-setting process is ongoing and until new standards have been finalized and issued, management cannot determine the impact on the reporting of the Registrant Subsidiaries operations and financial position that may result from any such future changes.  The FASB is currently working on several projects including revenue recognition, contingencies, liabilities and equity, emission allowances, leases, insurance, hedge accounting, consolidation policy, trading inventory and related tax impacts.  Management also expects to see more FASB projects as a result of its desire to converge International Accounting Standards with GAAP.  The ultimate pronouncements resulting from these and future projects could have an impact on future net income and financial position.
EXTRAORDINARY ITEM
Virginia Restructuring
In April 2007, Virginia passed legislation to reestablish regulation for retail generation and supply of electricity.  As a result, APCo recorded an extraordinary loss of $118 million ($79 million, net of tax) in 2007 for the reestablishment of regulatory assets and liabilities related to Virginia retail generation and supply operations.  In 2000, APCo discontinued SFAS 71 regulatory accounting in the Virginia jurisdiction for retail generation and supply operations due to the passage of legislation for customer choice and deregulation.
Goodwill
There is no goodwill carried by any of the Registrant Subsidiaries.
Other Intangible Assets
SWEPCos acquired intangible asset subject to amortization was $8.8 million and $9.9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, net of accumulated amortization and is included in Deferred Charges and Other on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The amortization life, gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization are:
Amortization of the intangible asset was $1 million, $3 million and $3 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  SWEPCos estimated total amortization is $1.1 million per year for 2009 through 2016, when the asset will be fully amortized with no residual value.
The Advanced Royalties asset class relates to the lignite mine of DHLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SWEPCo.  In December 2008, SWEPCo received an order from the LPSC that extended the useful life of the mine for an additional five years, beginning January 1, 2008, which is factored in the estimates noted above.
The Registrant Subsidiaries have no intangible assets that are not subject to amortization.
The Registrant Subsidiaries are involved in rate and regulatory proceedings at the FERC and their state commissions.  This note is a discussion of rate matters and industry restructuring related proceedings that could have a material effect on net income and cash flows.
For discussion of the FERCs November 2008 order on AEPs allocation of off-system sales, see Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins section within FERC Rate Matters.
Ohio Rate Matters
Ohio Electric Security Plan Filings  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
In April 2008, the Ohio legislature passed Senate Bill 221, which amended the restructuring law effective July 31, 2008 and required electric utilities to adjust their rates by filing an Electric Security Plan (ESP).  Electric utilities could include a fuel cost recovery mechanism (FCR) in their ESP filing.  Electric utilities also had an option to file a Market Rate Offer (MRO) for generation pricing.  An MRO, from the date of its commencement, would have transitioned CSPCo and OPCo to full market rates no sooner than six years and no later than ten years after the PUCO approves an MRO.  The PUCO has the authority to approve and/or modify each utilitys ESP request.  The PUCO is required to approve an ESP if, in the aggregate, the ESP is more favorable to ratepayers than an MRO.  Both alternatives involve a significantly excessive earnings test (SEET) based on what public companies, including other utilities with similar risk profiles, earn on equity.
In July 2008, within the parameters of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to establish rates for 2009 through 2011.  CSPCo and OPCo did not file an optional MRO.  CSPCos and OPCos ESP filings requested an annual rate increase for 2009 through 2011 that would not exceed approximately 15% per year.  A significant portion of the requested ESP increases resulted from the implementation of a FCR that primarily includes fuel costs, purchased power costs, consumables such as urea, other variable production costs and gains and losses on sales of emission allowances.  The FCR is proposed to be phased into customer bills over the three-year period from 2009 through 2011 and recovered with a weighted average cost of capital carrying cost deferral over seven years from 2012 through 2018.  If the ESPs are approved as filed, effective with the implementation of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer fuel cost over/under-recoveries and related carrying costs, including amounts unrecovered through the phase in period, for future recovery.
In addition to the FCR, the requested ESP increases would also recover incremental carrying costs associated with environmental costs, Provider of Last Resort (POLR) charges to compensate for the risk of customers changing electric suppliers, automatic increases for distribution reliability costs and for unexpected non-fuel generation costs.  The filings also include recovery for programs for smart metering initiatives, economic development, mandated energy efficiency, renewable resources and peak demand reduction programs.
Within the ESP requests, CSPCo and OPCo would also recover existing regulatory assets of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for customer choice implementation and line extension carrying costs incurred through December 2008.  In addition, CSPCo and OPCo would recover related unrecorded equity carrying costs of $31 million and $23 million, respectively, through December 2008.  The PUCO had previously issued orders allowing deferral of these costs.  Such costs would be recovered over an 8-year period beginning January 2011.  If the PUCO does not approve recovery of these regulatory assets in this or some future proceeding, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Hearings were held in November and December 2008.  Many intervenors filed opposing testimony.  CSPCo and OPCo requested retroactive application of the new rates, including the FCR, back to the start of the January 2009 billing cycle upon approval of the ESPs.  The RSP rates were effective for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 under which CSPCo and OPCo had three annual generation rate increases of 3% and 7%, respectively.  The RSP also allowed additional annual generation rate increases of up to an average of 4% per year to recover new governmentally-mandated costs.  In January 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application requesting the PUCO to authorize deferred fuel accounting beginning January 1, 2009.  A motion to dismiss the application has been filed by Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, while the Ohio Consumers Counsel has filed comments opposing the application.  The PUCO ordered that CSPCo and OPCo continue using their current RSP rates until the PUCO issues a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the March 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  Management is unable to predict the financial statement impact of the restructuring legislation until the PUCO acts on specific proposals made by CSPCo and OPCo in their ESPs.  CSPCo and OPCo anticipate a final order from the PUCO during the first quarter of 2009.
2008 Generation Rider and Transmission Rider Rate Settlement  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
On January 30, 2008, the PUCO approved a settlement agreement, among CSPCo, OPCo and other parties, under the additional average 4% generation rate increase and transmission cost recovery rider (TCRR) provisions of the RSP.  The increase was due to additional governmentally-mandated costs including incremental environmental costs.  Under the settlement, the PUCO also approved recovery through the TCRR of increased PJM costs associated with transmission line losses of $39 million each for CSPCo and OPCo.  As a result, CSPCo and OPCo established regulatory assets during the first quarter of 2008 of $12 million and $14 million, respectively, related to the future recovery of increased PJM billings previously expensed from June 2007 to December 2007 for transmission line losses.  The PUCO also approved a credit applied to the TCRR of $10 million for OPCo and $8 million for CSPCo for a reduction in PJM net congestion costs.  To the extent that collections for the TCRR recoveries are under/over actual net costs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer the difference as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability and adjust future customer billings to reflect actual costs, including carrying costs on the deferral.  In addition, the PUCO approved recoveries through generation rates of environmental costs and related carrying costs of $29 million for CSPCo and $5 million for OPCo.  These RSP rate adjustments were implemented in February 2008.  The TCRR continues in CSPCos and OPCos proposed ESPs to provide for the recovery of PJM related costs.
2009 Generation Rider and Transmission Rider  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
In October 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application to update the TCRR.  The application requested an average decrease of 3% for CSPCo and an average increase of 7% for OPCo, including under recoveries from the prior year and related carrying charges.  Based on the requests, CSPCo annual revenues would decrease approximately $5 million and OPCo annual revenues would increase approximately $13 million.
In December 2008, the PUCO issued a final order approving the application with certain modifications.  First, the rate to calculate carrying costs will change from using a current weighted average cost of capital rate (WACC), which includes a return on equity and a gross up for income taxes, to a long-term debt rate.  CSPCos and OPCos approved long-term debt rates were 5.73% and 5.71%, respectively.  In addition, the TCRR application eliminated the fuel-related credit which had been applied against the PJM transmission marginal line loss since CSPCos and OPCos proposed fuel adjustment clause in the filing of the ESP includes this credit.  The new TCRR became effective with the January 2009 billing cycle.
Ohio IGCC Plant  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
In March 2005, CSPCo and OPCo filed a joint application with the PUCO seeking authority to recover costs related to building and operating a 629 MW IGCC power plant using clean-coal technology.  The application proposed three phases of cost recovery associated with the IGCC plant:  Phase 1, recovery of $24 million in pre-construction costs; Phase 2, concurrent recovery of construction-financing costs; and Phase 3, recovery or refund in distribution rates of any difference between the generation rates which may be a market-based standard service offer price for generation and the expected higher cost of operating and maintaining the plant, including a return on and return of the projected cost to construct the plant.
In June 2006, the PUCO issued an order approving a tariff to allow CSPCo and OPCo to recover Phase 1 pre-construction costs over a period of no more than twelve months effective July 1, 2006.  During that period CSPCo and OPCo each collected $12 million in pre-construction costs and incurred $11 million in pre-construction costs.  As a result, CSPCo and OPCo each established a net regulatory liability of approximately $1 million.
The order also provided that if CSPCo and OPCo have not commenced a continuous course of construction of the proposed IGCC plant within five years of the June 2006 PUCO order, all Phase 1 cost recoveries associated with items that may be utilized in projects at other sites must be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest.  The PUCO deferred ruling on cost recovery for Phases 2 and 3 pending further hearings.
In 2006, intervenors filed four separate appeals of the PUCOs order in the IGCC proceeding.  In March 2008, the Ohio Supreme Court issued its opinion affirming in part, and reversing in part the PUCOs order and remanded the matter back to the PUCO.  The Ohio Supreme Court held that while there could be an opportunity under existing law to recover a portion of the IGCC costs in distribution rates, traditional rate making procedures would apply to the recoverable portion.  The Ohio Supreme Court did not address the matter of refunding the Phase 1 cost recovery and declined to create an exception to its precedent of denying claims for refund of past recoveries from approved orders of the PUCO.  In September 2008, the Ohio Consumers Counsel filed a motion with the PUCO requesting all Phase 1 costs be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest because the Ohio Supreme Court invalidated the underlying foundation for the Phase 1 recovery.  In October 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed a motion with the PUCO that argued the Ohio Consumers Counsels motion was without legal merit and contrary to past precedent.
In January 2009, a PUCO Attorney Examiner issued an order that CSPCo and OPCo file a detailed statement outlining the status of the construction of the IGCC plant, including whether CSPCo and OPCo are engaged in a continuous course of construction on the IGCC plant.  In February 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed a statement that CSPCo and OPCo have not commenced construction of the IGCC plant and believe there exist real statutory barriers to the construction of any new base load generation in Ohio, including IGCC plants.  The statement also indicated that while construction on the IGCC plant might not begin by June 2011, changes in circumstances could result in the commencement of construction on a continuous course by that time.
As of December 2007 the estimated cost to build the IGCC plant was $2.7 billion which has continued to increase significantly.  Management continues to pursue the ultimate construction of the IGCC plant.  However, CSPCo and OPCo will not start construction of the IGCC plant until sufficient assurance of regulatory cost recovery exists.
If CSPCo and OPCo were required to refund the $24 million collected and those costs were not recoverable in another jurisdiction in connection with the construction of an IGCC plant, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.  Management cannot predict the outcome of the cost recovery litigation concerning the Ohio IGCC plant or what, if any effect, the litigation will have on future net income and cash flows.
Ormet  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
Effective January 1, 2007, CSPCo and OPCo began to serve Ormet, a major industrial customer with a 520 MW load, in accordance with a settlement agreement approved by the PUCO.  The settlement agreement allows for the recovery in 2007 and 2008 of the difference between the $43 per MWH Ormet pays for power and a PUCO approved market price, if higher.  The PUCO approved a $47.69 per MWH market price for 2007 and the difference was recovered through the amortization of an existing $57 million ($15 million for CSPCo and $42 million for OPCo) regulatory liability related to excess deferred state taxes resulting from the phase-out of an Ohio franchise tax recorded in 2005.  During 2007, CSPCo and OPCo each amortized $7 million of this regulatory liability to increase income.  During 2008, CSPCo and OPCo each amortized $21.5 million of this regulatory liability to income based on PUCO approved market prices.  The settlement agreement required CSPCo and OPCo to exhaust the $57 million regulatory liability.  Therefore, CSPCo reimbursed OPCo for $13.5 million of OPCos unamortized regulatory liability.  The previously approved 2007 price of $47.69 per MWH was used through November 2008 when the PUCO approved a 2008 price of $53.03 per MWH.  The additional amortization recorded in December 2008 of $11 million each for CSPCo and OPCo related to the increase in the 2008 PUCO approved market price for the period January 2008 through November 2008.  As of December 31, 2008, the regulatory liability was fully amortized.
In December 2008, CSPCo, OPCo and Ormet filed an application with the PUCO for approval of an interim arrangement governing the provision of generation service to Ormet.  The arrangement would remain in effect and expire upon the effective date of CSPCos and OPCos new ESP rates and the effective date of a new arrangement between Ormet and CSPCo/OPCo approved by the PUCO.  Under the interim arrangement, Ormet would pay the applicable generation tariff rates and riders.  CSPCo and OPCo sought to defer as a regulatory asset beginning in 2009 the difference between the PUCO approved 2008 market price and the applicable generation tariff rates and riders.  CSPCo and OPCo propose to recover the deferral through the fuel adjustment clause mechanism they proposed in the ESP proceeding.  In January 2009,  the PUCO approved the application as an interim arrangement. Although the PUCO did not address recovery in this order, it is expected to be resolved in the pending ESP proceedings.  In February 2009, an intervenor filed an application for rehearing of the PUCOs interim arrangement approval.  In February 2009, Ormet filed an application with the PUCO for approval of a proposed power contract for 2009 through 2018.  Ormet proposed that it pay varying amounts based on certain conditions, including the price of aluminum.  The difference between the amounts paid by Ormet and the otherwise applicable PUCO tariff rate would be either collected from or refunded to CSPCos and OPCos retail customers.
Hurricane Ike  Affecting CSPCo and OPCo
In September 2008, the service territories of CSPCo and OPCo were impacted by strong winds from the remnants of Hurricane Ike.  Under the RSP, CSPCo and OPCo could seek a distribution rate adjustment to recover incremental distribution expenses related to major storm service restoration efforts.  In September 2008, CSPCo and OPCo established regulatory assets of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.  In December 2008, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO a request to establish the regulatory assets, plus carrying costs using CSPCos and OPCos weighted average cost of capital carrying charge rates.  In December 2008, the PUCO subsequently approved the establishment of the regulatory assets but authorized CSPCo and OPCo to record a long-term debt only carrying cost on the regulatory asset.  In its order approving the deferrals, the PUCO stated that recovery would be determined in CSPCos and OPCos future filings.
In December 2008, the Consumers for Reliable Electricity in Ohio filed a request with the PUCO asking for an investigation into the service reliability of Ohios investor-owned electric utilities, including CSPCo and OPCo.  The investigation request includes the widespread outages caused by the September 2008 wind storm.  CSPCo and OPCo filed a response asking the PUCO to deny the request.
As a result of the past favorable treatment of storm restoration costs and the RSP provisions, which were in effect when the storm occurred and the filings made, management believes the recovery of the regulatory assets is probable.  However, if these regulatory assets are not recovered, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Virginia Rate Matters
Virginia Base Rate Filing  Affecting APCo
In May 2008, APCo filed an application with the Virginia SCC to increase its base rates by $208 million on an annual basis.  The proposed revenue requirement reflected a return on equity of 11.75%.  As permitted under Virginia law, APCo implemented these new base rates, subject to refund, effective October 28, 2008.
In October 2008, APCo submitted a $168 million settlement agreement to the Virginia SCC which was accepted by most parties.  The $168 million settlement agreement revenue requirement was determined using a 10.2% return on equity and reflected the Virginia SCC staffs recommended increase as adjusted.
In November 2008, the Virginia SCC issued a final order approving the settlement agreement which increased APCos annual base revenues by $168 million.  The new authorized rates were implemented in December 2008, retroactive to October 28, 2008.  APCo made customer refunds with interest in January 2009 for the difference between the interim rates and the approved rates.
Virginia E&R Costs Recovery Filing  Affecting APCo
In May 2008, APCo filed a request with the Virginia SCC to recover $66 million of its incremental E&R costs incurred for the period of October 2006 to December 2007.  In September 2008, a settlement was reached and a stipulation agreement (stipulation) to recover $61 million of costs was submitted to the hearing examiner.  The stipulation included recovery of $4.5 million representing one-half of a $9 million Virginia jurisdictional portion of NSR settlement expenses recorded in 2007.  In accordance with the stipulation, APCo will request the remaining one-half of the $9 million of NSR settlement expenses in APCos 2009 E&R filing.
In September 2008, the hearing examiner recommended that the Virginia SCC accept the stipulation.  As a result, in September 2008, APCo deferred as a regulatory asset $9 million of NSR settlement expenses it had expensed in 2007 on the basis that those expenses had become probable of future recovery.  In October 2008, the Virginia SCC approved the stipulation which will have a favorable effect on 2009 cash flows of $61 million and on net income for the previously unrecognized equity carrying costs of approximately $11 million.
As of December 31, 2008, APCo has $123 million of deferred Virginia incremental E&R costs (excluding $25 million of unrecognized equity carrying costs).  The $123 million consists of $6 million of over recovery of costs collected from the 2008 surcharge, $50 million approved by the Virginia SCC related to APCos May 2008 E&R filing to be recovered in 2009, and $79 million, representing costs deferred in 2008, to be included in the 2009 E&R filing, to be collected in 2010.
If the Virginia SCC were to disallow a material portion of APCos 2008 deferral of incremental E&R costs including the remaining $4.5 million of the NSR settlement expenses, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Virginia Fuel Clause Filing  Affecting APCo
In July 2008, APCo initiated a fuel factor proceeding with the Virginia SCC and requested an annualized increase of $132 million effective September 1, 2008.  The increase primarily related to increases in coal costs.  In October 2008, the Virginia SCC ordered an annualized increase of $117 million based on differences in estimated future costs and inclusive of PJM transmission marginal line losses, subject to subsequent true-up to actual.
APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant  Affecting APCo
In January 2006, APCo filed a petition with the WVPSC requesting approval of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to construct a 629 MW IGCC plant adjacent to APCos existing Mountaineer Generating Station in Mason County, West Virginia.
In June 2007, APCo sought pre-approval with the WVPSC for a surcharge rate mechanism to provide for the timely recovery of pre-construction costs and the ongoing finance costs of the project during the construction period, as well as the capital costs, operating costs and a return on equity once the facility is placed into commercial operation.  In March 2008, the WVPSC granted APCo the CPCN to build the plant and approved the requested cost recovery.  In March 2008, various intervenors filed petitions with the WVPSC to reconsider the order.  No action has been taken on the requests for rehearing.
In July 2007, APCo filed a request with the Virginia SCC for a rate adjustment clause to recover initial costs associated with a proposed IGCC plant.  The filing requested recovery of an estimated $45 million over twelve months beginning January 1, 2009.  The $45 million included a return on projected CWIP and development, design and planning pre-construction costs incurred from July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009.  APCo also requested authorization to defer a carrying cost on deferred pre-construction costs incurred beginning July 1, 2007 until such costs are recovered.
The Virginia SCC issued an order in April 2008 denying APCos requests, in part, upon its finding that the estimated cost of the plant was uncertain and may escalate.  The Virginia SCC also expressed concern that the $2.2 billion estimated cost did not include a retrofitting of carbon capture and sequestration facilities.  In July 2008, based on the unfavorable order received in Virginia, the WVPSC issued a notice seeking comments from parties on how the WVPSC should proceed.  Comments were filed by various parties, including APCo, but the WVPSC has not taken any action.
Through December 31, 2008, APCo deferred for future recovery pre-construction IGCC costs of approximately $9 million applicable to the West Virginia jurisdiction, approximately $2 million applicable to the FERC jurisdiction and approximately $9 million allocated to the Virginia jurisdiction.
In July 2008, the IRS allocated $134 million in future tax credits to APCo for the planned IGCC plant contingent upon the commencement of construction, qualifying expense being incurred and certification of the IGCC plant prior to July 2010.
Although management continues to pursue the construction of the IGCC plant, APCo will not start construction of the IGCC plant until sufficient assurance of cost recovery exists.  If the plant is cancelled, APCo plans to seek recovery of its prudently incurred deferred pre-construction costs.  If the plant is cancelled and if the deferred costs are not recoverable, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project  Affecting APCo
In January 2008, APCo and ALSTOM Power Inc. (Alstom), an unrelated third party, entered into an agreement to jointly construct a CO capture demonstration facility.  APCo and Alstom will each own part of the CO capture facility.  APCo will also construct and own the necessary facilities to store the CO.  RWE AG, a German electric power and natural gas public utility, is participating in the evaluation of the commercial and technical feasibility of taking captured CO from the flue gas stream and storing it in deep geologic formations.  APCos estimated cost for its share of the facilities is $76 million.  Through December 31, 2008, APCo incurred $29 million in capitalized project costs which are included in Regulatory Assets.  APCo is earning a return on the capitalized project costs incurred through June 30, 2008, as a result of the base rate case settlement approved by the Virginia SCC in November 2008.  See the Virginia Base Rate Filing section above.  APCo plans to seek recovery for the CO capture and storage project costs in its next Virginia and West Virginia base rate filings which are expected to be filed in 2009.  If a significant portion of the deferred project costs are excluded from base rates and ultimately disallowed in future Virginia or West Virginia rate proceedings, it could have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
2
2
2
2
2
West Virginia Rate Matters
APCos 2008 Expanded Net Energy Cost (ENEC) Filing  Affecting APCo
In February 2008, APCo filed with the WVPSC for an increase of approximately $140 million including a $122 million increase in the ENEC, a $15 million increase in construction cost surcharges and $3 million of reliability expenditures, to become effective July 2008.  In June 2008, the WVPSC issued an order approving a joint stipulation and settlement agreement granting rate increases, effective July 2008, of approximately $95 million based on differences in estimated future costs, including an $79 million increase in the ENEC, a $13 million increase in construction cost surcharges and $3 million of reliability expenditures.  The ENEC is an expanded form of a fuel clause mechanism, which includes all energy-related costs including fuel, purchased power expenses, off-system sales credits, PJM costs associated with transmission line losses due to the implementation by PJM transmission marginal line loss pricing and other energy/transmission items.
The ENEC and reliability surcharges are subject to a true-up to actual costs.  Therefore, there should be no earnings effect if actual costs exceed the recoveries due to the deferral of any under-recovery of costs.  The construction cost is not subject to a true-up to actual costs and could impact future net income and cash flows if actual costs exceed the amounts approved for recovery.
APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant  Affecting APCo
See APCos Filings for an IGCC Plant section within Virginia Rate Matters for disclosure.
Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project  Affecting APCo
See Mountaineer Carbon Capture Project section within Virginia Rate Matters for disclosure.
Indiana Rate Matters
Indiana Base Rate Filing  Affecting I&M
In a January 2008 filing with the IURC, updated in the second quarter of 2008, I&M requested an increase in its Indiana base rates of $80 million including a return on equity of 11.5%.  The base rate increase included a $69 million annual reduction in depreciation expense previously approved by the IURC and implemented for accounting purposes effective June 2007.  The filing also requested trackers for certain variable components of the cost of service including recently increased PJM costs associated with transmission line losses due to the implementation of PJM transmission marginal line loss pricing and other RTO costs, reliability enhancement costs, demand side management/energy efficiency costs, off-system sales margins and environmental compliance costs.  The trackers would initially increase annual revenues by an additional $45 million.  I&M proposes to share with customers, through a proposed tracker, 50% of off-system sales margins initially estimated to be $96 million annually with a guaranteed credit to customers of $20 million.
In December 2008, I&M and all of the intervenors jointly filed a settlement agreement with the IURC proposing to resolve all of the issues in the case.  The settlement agreement included a $22 million increase in revenue from base rates with an authorized return on equity of 10.5% and a $22 million initial increase in tracker revenue.  The agreement also establishes an off-system sales sharing mechanism and trackers for PJM, net emission allowance, and DSM costs, among other provisions which include continued funding for the eventual decommissioning of the Cook Nuclear Plant.  I&M anticipates a final order from the IURCduring the first quarter of 2009.
 
Rockport and Tanners Creek  Affecting I&M
 
In January 2009, I&M filed a petition with the IURC requesting approval of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to use advanced coal technology which would allow I&M to reduce airborne emissions of NO and mercury from existing coal-fired steam electric generating units at the Rockport and Tanners Creek Plants.  In addition, the petition is requesting approval to construct and recover the costs of selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) systems at the Tanners Creek plant and to recover the costs of activated carbon injection (ACI) systems on both generating units at the Rockport plant.  I&M is requesting to depreciate the ACI systems over a period of 10 years and the SNCR systems over the remaining useful life of the Tanners Creek generating units.  I&M requested the IURC to approve a rate adjustment mechanism of unrecovered carrying costs during construction and a return on investment, depreciation expense and operation and maintenance costs, including consumables and new emission allowance costs, once the projects are placed in service.  I&M also requested the IURC to authorize deferral of costs and carrying costs until such costs are recognized in the rate adjustment mechanism.  The IURC has not issued a procedural schedule at this time for this petition.Management is unable to predict the outcome of this petition.
x
 
Indiana Fuel Clause Filing  Affecting I&M
In January 2009, I&M filed with the IURC an application to increase its fuel adjustment charge by approximately $53 million for April through September 2009.  The filing included an under-recovery for the period ended November 2008, mainly as a result of the extended outage of the Cook Unit 1 due to damage to the main turbine and generator and increased coal prices, and a projection for the future period of fuel costs including Cook Unit 1 replacement power fuel clause costs.  The filing also included an adjustment to reduce the incremental fuel cost of replacement power with a portion of the insurance proceeds from the Cook Unit 1 accidental outage policy.  See Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown section within the Commitment, Guarantees and Contingencies footnote for further details.  I&M reached an agreement in February 2009 with intervenors to collect the under-recovery over twelve months instead of over six months as proposed.  Under the agreement, the fuel factor will go into effect subject to refund and a subdocket will be established to consider issues relating to the Cook Unit 1 outage and I&Ms fuel procurement practices.  A decision from the IURC is still pending.
Michigan Rate Matters
Michigan Restructuring  Affecting I&M
Although customer choice commenced for I&Ms Michigan customers on January 1, 2002, I&Ms rates for generation in Michigan continued to be cost-based regulated because none of I&M's customers elected to change suppliers and no alternative electric suppliers were registered to compete in I&M's Michigan service territory.  In October 2008, the Governor of Michigan signed legislation to limit customer choice load to no more than 10% of the annual retail load for the preceding calendar year and to require the remaining 90% of annual retail load to be phased into cost-based rates.  The new legislation also requires utilities to meet certain energy efficiency and renewable portfolio standards and permits cost recovery of meeting those standards.  Management continues to conclude that I&M's rates for generation in Michigan are cost-based regulated and that I&M can practice regulatory accounting.
Oklahoma Rate Matters
PSO Fuel and Purchased Power  Affecting PSO
2006 and Prior Fuel and Purchased Power
Proceedings addressing PSOs historic fuel costs through 2006 remain open at the OCC due to the issue of the allocation of off-system sales margins among the AEP operating companies in accordance with a FERC-approved allocation agreement.  For further discussion and estimated effect on net income see Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins section within FERC Rate Matters.
In 2002, PSO under-recovered $42 million of fuel costs resulting from a reallocation among AEP West companies of purchased power costs for periods prior to 2002.  PSO recovered the $42 million during the period June 2007 through May 2008.  In June 2008, the Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers (OIEC) appealed an ALJ recommendation that allowed PSO to retain the $42 million from ratepayers.  The OIEC requested that PSO be required to refund the $42 million through its fuel clause.  In August 2008, the OCC heard the OIEC appeal and a decision is pending.
2007 Fuel and Purchased Power
In September 2008, the OCC initiated a review of PSOs generation, purchased power and fuel procurement processes and costs for 2007.  Management cannot predict the outcome of the pending fuel and purchased power cost recovery filings.  However, PSO believes its fuel and purchased power procurement practices and costs were prudent and properly incurred and therefore are legally recoverable.
Red Rock Generating Facility  Affecting PSO
In July 2006, PSO announced an agreement with Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company (OG&E) to build a 950 MW pulverized coal ultra-supercritical generating unit.  PSO would have owned 50% of the new unit.  OG&E and PSO requested pre-approval to construct the coal-fired Red Rock Generating Facility (Red Rock) and to implement a recovery rider.
In October 2007, the OCC issued a final order approving PSOs need for 450 MWs of additional capacity by the year 2012, but rejected the ALJs recommendation and denied PSOs and OG&Es applications for construction pre-approval.  The OCC stated that PSO failed to fully study other alternatives to a coal-fired plant.  Since PSO and OG&E could not obtain pre-approval to build Red Rock, PSO and OG&E cancelled the third party construction contract and their joint venture development contract.
In December 2007, PSO filed an application at the OCC requesting recovery of $21 million in pre-construction costs and contract cancellation fees associated with Red Rock.  In March 2008, PSO and all other parties in this docket signed a settlement agreement that provided for recovery of $11 million of Red Rock pre-construction costs and carrying costs at PSOs AFUDC rate beginning in March 2008 and continuing until the $11 million is included in base rates in PSOs next base rate case.  PSO will recover the costs over the expected life of the peaking facilities at the Southwestern Station, and include the costs in rate base in its next base rate filing.  The OCC approved the settlement in May 2008.  As a result of the settlement, PSO wrote off $10 million of its deferred pre-construction costs/cancellation fees in the first quarter of 2008.  The remaining balance of $11 million was recorded as a regulatory asset.  In July 2008, PSO filed a base rate case which included $11 million of deferred Red Rock costs plus carrying charges at PSOs AFUDC rate beginning in March 2008.  In January 2009, the OCC approved the base rate case.  See 2008 Oklahoma Base Rate Filing section below.
Oklahoma 2007 Ice Storms  Affecting PSO
In January and December 2007, PSO incurred maintenance expenses for two large ice storms.  Prior to December 2007, PSO filed with the OCC requesting recovery of the maintenance expenses related to the January 2007 service restoration efforts.  PSO proposed in its application to establish a regulatory asset to defer the previously expensed ice storm restoration costs and to offset the regulatory asset with gains from the sale of excess SO emission allowances.
2
In February 2008, PSO entered into a settlement agreement for recovery of ice storm restoration costs from both ice storms.  In March 2008, the OCC approved the settlement agreement subject to a final audit.  Therefore, in March 2008, PSO recorded a regulatory asset for the previously expensed ice storm maintenance costs.  In October 2008, PSO received final approval to recover $74 million of ice storm costs.  PSO has applied and will continue to apply proceeds from sale of excess SO emission allowances to reduce the regulatory asset.  The estimated net balance that is not recovered from the sale of emission allowances will be amortized and recovered through a rider over a period of five years which began in November 2008.  The rider will ultimately be trued-up to recover the entire $74 million regulatory asset.  The regulatory asset earns a return of 10.92% until fully recovered.
2
2008 Oklahoma Base Rate Filing  Affecting PSO
In July 2008, PSO filed an application with the OCC to increase its base rates by $133 million (later adjusted to $127 million) on an annual basis.  PSO has been recovering costs related to new peaking units recently placed into service through a Generation Cost Recovery Rider (GCRR).  Subsequent to implementation of the new base rates, the GCRR will terminate and PSO will recover these costs through the new base rates.  Therefore, PSOs net annual requested increase in total revenues was actually $117 million (later adjusted to $111 million).  The proposed revenue requirement reflected a return on equity of 11.25%.
In January 2009, the OCC issued a final order approving an $81 million increase in PSOs non-fuel base revenues and a 10.5% return on equity.  The rate increase includes a $59 million increase in base rates and a $22 million increase for costs to be recovered through riders outside of base rates.  The $22 million increase includes $14 million for purchase power capacity costs and $8 million for the recovery of carrying costs associated with PSOs program to convert overhead distribution lines to underground service.  The $8 million recovery of carrying costs associated with the overhead to underground conversion program will occur only if PSO makes the required capital expenditures.  The final order approved lower depreciation rates and also provides for the deferral of $6 million of generation maintenance expenses to be recovered over a six-year period.  This deferral will be recorded in the first quarter of 2009.  Additional deferrals were approved for distribution storm costs above or below the amount included in base rates and for certain transmission reliability expenses.  The new rates reflecting the final order were implemented with the first billing cycle of February 2009.
In January 2009, PSO and one intervenor filed motions with the OCC to modify its final order.  PSO filed an appeal with the Oklahoma Supreme Court challenging an adjustment the OCC made on prepaid pension funding contained within the OCC final order.  The OCC subsequently declined to consider the motions to modify.  In February 2009, the Oklahoma Attorney General and several intervenors also filed appeals with the Oklahoma Supreme Court raising several issues.  If the Attorney General and/or the intervenors Supreme Court appeals are successful, it could have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Louisiana Rate Matters
Louisiana Compliance Filing  Affecting SWEPCo
In connection with SWEPCos merger related compliance filings, the LPSC approved a settlement agreement in April 2008 that prospectively resolves all issues regarding claims that SWEPCo had over-earned its allowed return.  SWEPCo agreed to a formula rate plan (FRP) with a three-year term.  Under the plan, beginning in August 2008, rates shall be established to allow SWEPCo to earn an adjusted return on common equity of 10.565%.  The adjustments are standard Louisiana rate filing adjustments.
If in the second and third year of the FRP, the adjusted earned return is within the range of 10.015% to 11.115%, no adjustment to rates is necessary.  However, if the adjusted earned return is outside of the above-specified range, an FRP rider will be established to increase or decrease rates prospectively.  If the adjusted earned return is less than 10.015%, SWEPCo will prospectively increase rates to collect 60% of the difference between 10.565% and the adjusted earned return.  Alternatively, if the adjusted earned return is more than 11.115%, SWEPCo will prospectively decrease rates by 60% of the difference between the adjusted earned return and 10.565%.  SWEPCo will not record over/under recovery deferrals for refund or future recovery under this FRP.
The settlement provides for a separate credit rider decreasing Louisiana retail base rates by $5 million prospectively over the entire three-year term of the FRP, which shall not affect the adjusted earned return in the FRP calculation.  This separate credit rider will cease effective August 2011.
In addition, the settlement provides for a reduction in generation depreciation rates effective October 2007.  SWEPCo deferred as a regulatory liability the effects of the expected depreciation reduction through July 2008.  SWEPCo will amortize this regulatory liability over the three-year term of the FRP as a reduction to the cost of service used to determine the adjusted earned return.
In April 2008, SWEPCo filed the first FRP which would increase its annual Louisiana retail rates by $11 million in August 2008 to earn an adjusted return on common equity of 10.565%.  In accordance with the settlement, SWEPCo recorded a $4 million regulatory liability related to the reduction in generation depreciation rates.  The amount of the unamortized regulatory liability for the reduction in generation depreciation was $3 million as of December 31, 2008.  In August 2008, the LPSC approved the settlement and SWEPCo implemented the FRP rates, subject to refund.  No provision for refund has been recorded as SWEPCo believes that the rates as implemented are in compliance with the settlement.
Stall Unit  Affecting SWEPCo
In May 2006, SWEPCo announced plans to build a new intermediate load, 500 MW, natural gas-fired, combustion turbine, combined cycle generating unit (the Stall Unit) at its existing Arsenal Hill Plant location in Shreveport, Louisiana.  SWEPCo submitted the appropriate filings to the PUCT, the APSC, the LPSC and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality to seek approvals to construct the unit.  The Stall Unit is currently estimated to cost $384 million, excluding AFUDC, and is expected to be in-service in mid-2010.  The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality issued an air permit for the Stall unit in March 2008.
In March 2007, the PUCT approved SWEPCos request for a certificate for the facility based on a prior cost estimate.  In July 2008, a Louisiana ALJ issued a recommendation that SWEPCo be authorized to construct, own and operate the Stall Unit and recommended that costs be capped at $445 million (excluding transmission).  In October 2008, the LPSC issued a final order effectively approving the ALJ recommendation.  In December 2008, SWEPCo submitted an amended filing seeking approval from the APSC to construct the unit.  The APSC has established a procedural schedule with a public hearing for April 2009.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Stall Unit, SWEPCo would seek recovery of the capitalized construction costs including any cancellation fees.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized construction costs of $252 million (including AFUDC) and has contractual construction commitments of an additional $99 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, cancellation fees of $33 million would have been required in order to terminate the construction commitments.  If SWEPCo cancels the plant and cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Turk Plant  Affecting SWEPCo
See Turk Plant section within Arkansas Rate Matters for disclosure.
Arkansas Rate Matters
Turk Plant  Affecting SWEPCo
In August 2006, SWEPCo announced plans to build the Turk Plant, a new base load 600 MW pulverized coal ultra-supercritical generating unit in Arkansas.  SWEPCo submitted filings with the APSC, the PUCT and the LPSC seeking certification of the plant.  SWEPCo will own 73% of the Turk Plant and will operate the facility.  During 2007, SWEPCo signed joint ownership agreements with the Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority (OMPA), the Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation (AECC) and the East Texas Electric Cooperative (ETEC) for the remaining 27% of the Turk Plant.  The Turk Plant is currently estimated to cost $1.6 billion, excluding AFUDC, with SWEPCos portion estimated to cost $1.2 billion.  If approved on a timely basis, the plant is expected to be in-service in 2012.
In November 2007, the APSC granted approval to build the Turk Plant.  Certain landowners filed a notice of appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals.  In March 2008, the LPSC approved the application to construct the Turk Plant.
In August 2008, the PUCT issued an order approving the Turk Plant with the following four conditions: (a) the capping of capital costs for the Turk Plant at the previously estimated $1.522 billion projected construction cost, excluding AFUDC, (b) capping CO emission costs at $28 per ton through the year 2030, (c) holding Texas ratepayers financially harmless from any adverse impact related to the Turk Plant not being fully subscribed to by other utilities or wholesale customers and (d) providing the PUCT all updates, studies, reviews, reports and analyses as previously required under the Louisiana and Arkansas orders.  In October 2008, SWEPCo appealed the PUCTs order regarding the two cost cap restrictions.  If the cost cap restrictions are upheld and construction or emissions costs exceed the restrictions, it could have a material adverse impact on future net income and cash flows.  In October 2008, an intervenor filed an appeal contending that the PUCTs grant of a conditional Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the Turk Plant was not necessary to serve retail customers.
2
A request to stop pre-construction activities at the site was filed in federal court by Arkansas landowners.  In July 2008, the federal court denied the request and the Arkansas landowners appealed the denial to the U.S. Court of Appeals.
In November 2008, SWEPCo received the air permit approval from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality and commenced construction.  In December 2008, Arkansas landowners filed an appeal with the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission (APCEC) which caused construction of the Turk Plant to halt until the APCEC took further action.  In December 2008, SWEPCo filed a request with the APCEC to continue construction of the Turk Plant and the APCEC ruled to allow construction to continue while an appeal of the Turk Plants permit is heard.  SWEPCo is also working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the approval of a wetlands and stream impact permit.
In January 2008 and July 2008, SWEPCo filed Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need (CECPN) applications with the APSC to construct transmission lines necessary for service from the Turk Plant.  Several landowners filed for intervention status and one landowner also contended he should be permitted to re-litigate Turk Plant issues, including the need for the generation.  The APSC granted their intervention but denied the request to re-litigate the Turk Plant issues.  In June 2008, the landowner filed an appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals requesting to re-litigate Turk Plant issues.  SWEPCo responded and the appeal was dismissed.  In January 2009, the APSC approved the CECPN applications.
The Arkansas Governors Commission on Global Warming issued its final report to the Governor in October 2008.  The Commission was established to set a global warming pollution reduction goal together with a strategic plan for implementation in Arkansas.  The Commissions final report included a recommendation that the Turk Plant employ post combustion carbon capture and storage measures as soon as it starts operating.  If legislation is passed as a result of the findings in the Commissions report, it could impact SWEPCos proposal to build the Turk Plant.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Turk Plant, SWEPCo could incur significant cancellation fees to terminate its commitments and would be responsible to reimburse OMPA, AECC and ETEC for their share of paid costs.  If that occurred, SWEPCo would seek recovery of its capitalized costs including any cancellation fees and joint owner reimbursements.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized approximately $510 million of expenditures (including AFUDC) and has significant contractual construction commitments for an additional $727 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, SWEPCo would have incurred cancellation fees of $61 million.  If the Turk Plant does not receive all necessary approvals on reasonable terms and SWEPCo cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Arkansas Base Rate Filing  Affecting SWEPCo
In February 2009, SWEPCo filed an application with the APSC for a base rate increase of $25 million based on a requested return on equity of 11.5%.  SWEPCo also requested a separate rider to concurrently recover financing costs related to the Stall and Turk generation plants that are currently under construction.  A decision is not expected until the fourth quarter of 2009 or the first quarter of 2010.
Stall Unit  Affecting SWEPCo
See Stall Unit section within Louisiana Rate Matters for disclosure.
FERC Rate Matters
Regional Transmission Rate Proceedings at the FERC  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo
SECA Revenue Subject to Refund
Effective December 1, 2004, AEP eliminated transaction-based through-and-out transmission service (T&O) charges in accordance with FERC orders and collected at FERCs direction load-based charges, referred to as RTO SECA, to partially mitigate the loss of T&O revenues on a temporary basis through March 31, 2006.  Intervenors objected to the temporary SECA rates, raising various issues.  As a result, the FERC set SECA rate issues for hearing and ordered that the SECA rate revenues be collected, subject to refund.  The AEP East companies paid SECA rates to other utilities at considerably lesser amounts than they collected.  If a refund is ordered, the AEP East companies would also receive refunds related to the SECA rates they paid to third parties.  The AEP East companies recognized gross SECA revenues of $220 million from December 2004 through March 2006 when the SECA rates terminated leaving the AEP East companies and ultimately their internal load retail customers to make up the short fall in revenues.  APCos, CSPCos, I&Ms and OPCos portions of recognized gross SECA revenues are as follows:
In August 2006, a FERC ALJ issued an initial decision, finding that the rate design for the recovery of SECA charges was flawed and that a large portion of the lost revenues reflected in the SECA rates should not have been recoverable.  The ALJ found that the SECA rates charged were unfair, unjust and discriminatory and that new compliance filings and refunds should be made.  The ALJ also found that the unpaid SECA rates must be paid in the recommended reduced amount.
In September 2006, AEP filed briefs jointly with other affected companies noting exceptions to the ALJs initial decision and asking the FERC to reverse the decision in large part.  Management believes, based on advice of legal counsel, that the FERC should reject the ALJs initial decision because it contradicts prior related FERC decisions, which are presently subject to rehearing.  Furthermore, management believes the ALJs findings on key issues are largely without merit.  AEP and SECA ratepayers have engaged in settlement discussions in an effort to settle the SECA issue.  However, if the ALJs initial decision is upheld in its entirety, it could result in a disallowance of a large portion on any unsettled SECA revenues.
Based on anticipated settlements, the AEP East companies provided reserves for net refunds for current and future SECA settlements totaling $39 million and $5 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, applicable to a total of $220 million of SECA revenues.  APCos, CSPCos, I&Ms and OPCos portions of the provision are as follows:
In December 2008, an additional settlement agreement was approved by the FERC resulting in the completion of a $2 million settlement applicable to $17 million of SECA revenue.  Including this most recent settlement, AEP has completed settlements totaling $9 million applicable to $92 million of SECA revenues.  The balance in the reserve for future settlements as of December 2008 was $35 million.  In-process settlements total $1 million applicable to $20 million of SECA revenues.  In February 2009, the FERC approved the in-process settlements resulting in the completion of a $1 million settlement application to $20 million of SECA revenues.  APCos, CSPCos, I&Ms and OPCos reserve balance at December 31, 2008 was:
If the FERC adopts the ALJs decision and/or AEP cannot settle all of the remaining unsettled claims within the remaining amount reserved for refund, it will have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.  Based on advice of external FERC counsel, recent settlement experience and the expectation that most of the unsettled SECA revenues will be settled, management believes that the available reserve of $34 million is adequate to settle the remaining $108 million of contested SECA revenues.  However, management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of ongoing settlement discussions or future FERC proceedings or court appeals, if any.
The FERC PJM Regional Transmission Rate Proceeding
With the elimination of T&O rates, the expiration of SECA rates and after considerable administrative litigation at the FERC in which AEP sought to mitigate the effect of the T&O rate elimination, the FERC failed to implement a regional rate in PJM.  As a result, the AEP East companies retail customers incur the bulk of the cost of the existing AEP east transmission zone facilities.  However, the FERC ruled that the cost of any new 500 kV and higher voltage transmission facilities built in PJM would be shared by all customers in the region.  It is expected that most of the new 500 kV and higher voltage transmission facilities will be built in other zones of PJM, not AEPs zone.  The AEP East companies will need to obtain regulatory approvals for recovery of any costs of new facilities that are assigned to them by PJM.  In February 2008, AEP filed a Petition for Review of the FERC orders in this case in the United States Court of Appeals.  Management cannot estimate at this time what effect, if any, this order will have on the AEP East companies future construction of new transmission facilities, net income and cash flows.
The AEP East companies filed for and in 2006 obtained increases in their wholesale transmission rates to recover lost revenues previously applied to reduce those rates.  AEP has also sought and received retail rate increases in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky.  As a result, AEP is now recovering approximately 80% of the lost T&O transmission revenues.  The remaining 20% is being incurred by AEP until it can revise its rates in Indiana and Michigan to recover these lost revenues.  AEP received net SECA transmission revenues of $128 million in 2005.  I&M requested recovery of its portion of these lost revenues in its Indiana rate filing in January 2008 but does not expect to commence recovering the new rates until early 2009.  Future net income and cash flows will continue to be adversely affected in Indiana and Michigan until the remaining 20% of the lost T&O transmission revenues are recovered in retail rates.
The FERC PJM and MISO Regional Transmission Rate Proceeding
In the SECA proceedings, the FERC ordered the RTOs and transmission owners in the PJM/MISO region (the Super Region) to file, by August 1, 2007, a proposal to establish a permanent transmission rate design for the Super Region to be effective February 1, 2008.  All of the transmission owners in PJM and MISO, with the exception of AEP and one MISO transmission owner, elected to support continuation of zonal rates in both RTOs.  In September 2007, AEP filed a formal complaint proposing a highway/byway rate design be implemented for the Super Region where users pay based on their use of the transmission system.  AEP argued the use of other PJM and MISO facilities by AEP is not as large as the use of AEP transmission by others in PJM and MISO.  Therefore, a regional rate design change is required to recognize that the provision and use of transmission service in the Super Region is not sufficiently uniform between transmission owners and users to justify zonal rates.  In January 2008, the FERC denied AEPs complaint.  AEP filed a rehearing request with the FERC in March 2008.  In December 2008, the FERC denied AEPs request for rehearing.  In February 2009, AEP filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals.  If the court appeal is successful, earnings could benefit for a certain period of time due to regulatory lag until the AEP East companies reduce future retail revenues in their next fuel or base rate proceedings.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this case.
PJM Transmission Formula Rate Filing  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo
In July 2008, AEP filed an application with the FERC to increase its rates for wholesale transmission service within PJM by $63 million annually.  The filing seeks to implement a formula rate allowing annual adjustments reflecting future changes in AEP's cost of service.  The requested increase would result in a combined increase in annual revenues for the AEP East companies of approximately $9 million from nonaffiliated customers within PJM.  The remaining $54 million requested would be billed to the AEP East companies but would be offset by compensation from PJM for use of AEPs transmission facilities so that retail rates for jurisdictions other than Ohio are not affected.  Retail rates for CSPCo and OPCo would be increased through the Transmission Cost Recovery Rider (TCRR) totaling approximately $10 million and $12 million, respectively.  The TCRR includes a true-up mechanism so CSPCos and OPCos net income will not be adversely affected by a FERC ordered transmission rate increase.  AEP requested an effective date of October 1, 2008.  In September 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting AEPs proposed formula rate, subject to a compliance filing, suspended the effective date until March 1, 2009 and established a settlement proceeding with an ALJ.  In October 2008, AEP began settlement discussions and filed the required compliance filing.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this filing.
SPP Transmission Formula Rate Filing  Affecting PSO and SWEPCo
In June 2007, AEPSC filed revised tariffs to establish an up-to-date revenue requirement for SPP transmission services over the facilities owned by PSO and SWEPCo and to implement a transmission cost of service formula rate.  PSO and SWEPCo requested an effective date of September 1, 2007 for the revised tariff.  If approved as filed, the revised tariff will increase annual network transmission service revenues from nonaffiliated municipal and rural cooperative utilities in the AEP pricing zone of SPP by approximately $10 million.  In August 2007, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting PSOs and SWEPCos proposed formula rate, subject to a compliance filing, suspended the effective date until February 1, 2008 and established a hearing schedule and settlement proceedings.  New rates, subject to refund, were implemented in February 2008.  Multiple intervenors have protested or requested re-hearing of the order.  A settlement agreement was reached.  However, the final settlement documents have not been filed with FERC pending final approval by settling parties.
Allocation of Off-system Sales Margins  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
In August 2008, the OCC filed a complaint at the FERC alleging that AEP inappropriately allocated off-system sales margins between the AEP East companies and the AEP West companies and did not properly allocate off-system sales margins within the AEP West companies.  The PUCT, the APSC and the Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers intervened in this filing.  In November 2008, the FERC issued a final order concluding that AEP inappropriately deviated from off-system sales margin allocation methods in the AEP SIA and the CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 through March 2006.  The FERC ordered AEP to recalculate and reallocate the off-system sales margins in compliance with the AEP SIA and to have the AEP East companies issue refunds to the AEP West companies.  Although the FERC determined that AEP deviated from the CSW Operating Agreement, the FERC determined the allocation methodology to be reasonable.  The FERC ordered AEP to submit a revised CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 to March 2006.  In December 2008, AEP filed a motion for rehearing and a revised CSW Operating Agreement for the period June 2000 to March 2006.  The motion for rehearing is still pending.  In January 2009, AEP filed a compliance filing with the FERC and refunded approximately $250 million from the AEP East companies to the AEP West companies.  The AEP West companies shared a portion of such revenues with their wholesale and retail customers during this period.  In December 2008, the AEP West companies recorded a provision for refund which had a $97 million unfavorable effect on AEP net income.  In January 2009, SWEPCo refunded approximately $13 million to FERC wholesale customers.  In February 2009, SWEPCo filed a settlement agreement with the PUCT that provides for the Texas retail jurisdiction refund to be made through the fuel clause recovery mechanism.  PSO will begin refunding approximately $54 million plus accrued interest to Oklahoma retail customers through the fuel adjustment clause over a 12-month period beginning with the March 2009 billing cycle.  TCC and TNC in Texas and SWEPCo in Arkansas and Louisiana will be working with their state commissions to determine the effect the FERC order will have on retail rates.  Management believes that the existing provision for refund is adequate to address existing and any future refunds that may result from the FERC order.
The table below lists the respective amounts the AEP East companies and the AEP West companies recorded in December 2008 including the net increase (decrease) to net income for the year ended December 31, 2008:
The table below shows the vintage year of the associated AEP SIA refunds:
Management cannot predict the outcome of the requested FERC rehearing proceeding or any future regulatory proceedings but believes the provision regarding future regulatory proceedings is adequate.
Transmission Equalization Agreement  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo
Certain transmission equipment placed in service in 1998 was inadvertently excluded from the AEP East companies TEA calculation prior to January 2009.  Management believes that it is not probable that a material retroactive adjustment will result from the omission.  If a retroactive adjustment is required for APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo, it could have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
5.        
EFFECTS OF REGULATION
Regulatory assets and liabilities are comprised of the following items:
 
The Registrant Subsidiaries are subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in their ordinary course of business.  In addition, their business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.  The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation cannot be predicted.  For current proceedings not specifically discussed below, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the financial statements.
Insurance and Potential Losses Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
The Registrant Subsidiaries maintain insurance coverage normal and customary for electric utilities, subject to various deductibles.  Insurance coverage includes all risks of physical loss or damage to nonnuclear assets, subject to insurance policy conditions and exclusions.  Covered property generally includes power plants, substations, facilities and inventories.  Excluded property generally includes transmission and distribution lines, poles and towers.  The insurance programs also generally provide coverage against loss arising from certain claims made by third parties and are in excess of retentions absorbed by the Registrant Subsidiaries.  Coverage is generally provided by a combination of a South Carolina domiciled insurance company, EIS, together with and/or in addition to various industry mutual and commercial insurance carriers.
See Note 9 for a discussion of I&Ms nuclear exposures and related insurance.
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to meet potential losses and liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities relating to damage to the Cook Plant and costs of replacement power in the event of an incident at the Cook Plant.  Future losses or liabilities, if they occur, which are not completely insured, unless recovered from customers, could have a material adverse effect on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
COMMITMENTS
Construction and Commitments
 Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
The Registrant Subsidiaries have substantial construction commitments to support their operations and environmental investments.  In managing the overall construction program and in the normal course of business, the Registrant Subsidiaries contractually commit to third-party construction vendors for certain material purchases and other construction services.  The following table shows the budgeted construction expenditures by Registrant Subsidiary for 2009:
 
Budgeted construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital.
The Registrant Subsidiaries purchase fuel, materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment under contract as part of their normal course of business.  Certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination.  Management does not expect to incur penalty payments under these provisions that would materially affect net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The following table summarizes the Registrant Subsidiaries actual contractual commitments at December 31, 2008:
GUARANTEES
There is no collateral held in relation to any guarantees.  In the event any guarantee is drawn, there is no recourse to third parties unless specified below.
Letters of Credit  Affecting APCo, I&M, OPCo and SWEPCo
Certain Registrant Subsidiaries enter into standby letters of credit (LOCs) with third parties.  These LOCs cover items such as insurance programs, security deposits and debt service reserves.  These LOCs were issued in the ordinary course of business under the two $1.5 billion credit facilities which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $46 million following its bankruptcy.
In April 2008, the Registrant Subsidiaries and certain other companies in the AEP System entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  As of December 31, 2008, $372 million of letters of credit were issued by Registrant Subsidiaries under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate Pollution Control Bonds.
At December 31, 2008, the maximum future payments of the LOCs were as follows:
Guarantees of Third-Party Obligations  Affecting SWEPCo
As part of the process to receive a renewal of a Texas Railroad Commission permit for lignite mining, SWEPCo provides guarantees of mine reclamation in the amount of approximately $65 million.  Since SWEPCo uses self-bonding, the guarantee provides for SWEPCo to commit to use its resources to complete the reclamation in the event the work is not completed by Sabine Mining Company (Sabine), an entity consolidated under FIN 46R.  This guarantee ends upon depletion of reserves and completion of final reclamation.  Based on the latest study, it is estimated the reserves will be depleted in 2029 with final reclamation completed by 2036, at an estimated cost of approximately $39 million.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has collected approximately $38 million through a rider for final mine closure costs, of which approximately $700 thousand is recorded in Other Current Liabilities and $37.6 million is recorded in Deferred Credits and Other on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Sabine charges SWEPCo, its only customer, all of its costs.  SWEPCo passes these costs to customers through its fuel clause.
Indemnifications and Other Guarantees  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Contracts
The Registrant Subsidiaries enter into certain types of contracts which require indemnifications.  Typically these contracts include, but are not limited to, sale agreements, lease agreements, purchase agreements and financing agreements.  Generally, these agreements may include, but are not limited to, indemnifications around certain tax, contractual and environmental matters.  With respect to sale agreements, exposure generally does not exceed the sale price.  Prior to December 31, 2008, Registrant Subsidiaries entered into sale agreements which included indemnifications with a maximum exposure that was not significant for any individual Registrant Subsidiary.  There are no material liabilities recorded for any indemnifications.
The AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo are jointly and severally liable for activity conducted by AEPSC on behalf of the AEP East companies, PSO and SWEPCo related to power purchase and sale activity conducted pursuant to the SIA.
Lease Obligations
Certain Registrant Subsidiaries lease certain equipment under master lease agreements.  See Master Lease Agreements and Railcar Lease sections of Note 13 for disclosure of lease residual value guarantees.
CONTINGENCIES
Federal EPA Complaint and Notice of Violation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, and OPCo
The Federal EPA, certain special interest groups and a number of states alleged that APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo modified certain units at their coal-fired generating plants in violation of the NSR requirements of the CAA.  Cases with similar allegations against CSPCo, Dayton Power and Light Company (DP&L) and Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. were also filed related to their jointly-owned units.
In 2007, the U.S. District Court approved the AEP Systems consent decree with the Federal EPA, the DOJ, the states and the special interest groups.  The consent decree resolved all issues related to various parties claims in the NSR cases.  Under the consent decree, the AEP System paid a $15 million civil penalty in 2008 and provided $36 million for environmental projects coordinated with the federal government and $24 million to the states for environmental mitigation.  The Registrant Subsidiaries expensed their share of these amounts in 2007 as follows:
In October 2008, the court approved a consent decree for a settlement reached with the Sierra Club in a case involving CSPCos share of jointly-owned units at the Stuart Station.  The Stuart units, operated by DP&L, are equipped with SCR and FGD controls.  Under the terms of the settlement, the joint-owners agreed to certain emission targets related to NO, SO and PM.  They also agreed to make energy efficiency and renewable energy commitments that are conditioned on receiving PUCO approval for recovery of costs.  The joint-owners also agreed to forfeit 5,500 SO allowances and provide $300 thousand to a third party organization to establish a solar water heater rebate program.  Another case involving a jointly-owned Beckjord unit had a liability trial in 2008.  Following the trial, the jury found no liability for claims made against the jointly-owned Beckjord unit.  In December 2008, however, the court ordered a new trial in the Beckjord case.
x
2
2
Management is unable to estimate the loss or range of loss related to any contingent liability, if any, CSPCo might have for civil penalties under the pending CAA proceeding for Beckjord.  Management is also unable to predict the timing of resolution of these matters.  If the joint-owners do not prevail, management believes that APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo can recover any capital and operating costs of additional pollution control equipment that may be required as a result of the consent decree through future regulated rates or market prices of electricity.  If APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo are unable to recover such costs or if material penalties are imposed, it would adversely affect their future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Notice of Enforcement and Notice of Citizen Suit  Affecting SWEPCo
In March 2005, two special interest groups, Sierra Club and Public Citizen, filed a complaint in federal district court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging violations of the CAA at SWEPCos Welsh Plant.  In April 2008, the parties filed a proposed consent decree to resolve all claims in this case and in the pending appeal of the altered permit for the Welsh Plant.  The consent decree requires SWEPCo to install continuous particulate emission monitors at the Welsh Plant, secure 65 MW of renewable energy capacity by 2010, fund $2 million in emission reduction, energy efficiency or environmental mitigation projects by 2012 and pay a portion of plaintiffs attorneys fees and costs.  The consent decree was entered as a final order in June 2008.
In 2004, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) issued a Notice of Enforcement to SWEPCo relating to the Welsh Plant.  A permit alteration was issued in March 2007 that clarified or eliminated certain  of the permit conditions.  In June 2007, TCEQ denied a motion to overturn the permit alteration.  The permit alteration was appealed to the Travis County District Court, but was resolved by entry of the consent decree in the federal citizen suit action, and dismissed with prejudice in July 2008.  Notice of an administrative settlement of the TCEQ enforcement action was published in June 2008.  The settlement requires SWEPCo to pay an administrative penalty of $49 thousand and to fund a supplemental environmental project in the amount of $49 thousand, and resolves all violations alleged by TCEQ.  In October 2008, TCEQ approved the settlement.
In February 2008, the Federal EPA issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) based on alleged violations of a percent sulfur in fuel limitation and the heat input values listed in the previous state permit.  The NOV also alleges that the permit alteration issued by TCEQ was improper.  SWEPCo met with the Federal EPA to discuss the alleged violations in March 2008.  The Federal EPA did not object to the settlement of similar alleged violations in the federal citizen suit.
Management is unable to predict the timing of any future action by the Federal EPA or the effect of such actions on net income, cash flows or financial condition.
Carbon Dioxide Public Nuisance Claims  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
In 2004, eight states and the City of New York filed an action in federal district court for the Southern District of New York against AEP, AEPSC, Cinergy Corp, Xcel Energy, Southern Company and Tennessee Valley Authority.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, on behalf of three special interest groups, filed a similar complaint against the same defendants.  The actions allege that COemissions from the defendants power plants constitute a public nuisance under federal common law due to impacts of global warming, and sought injunctive relief in the form of specific emission reduction commitments from the defendants.  The dismissal of this lawsuit was appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.  Briefing and oral argument have concluded in 2006.  In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision holding that the Federal EPA has authority to regulate emissions of CO and other greenhouse gases under the CAA, which may impact the Second Circuits analysis of these issues.  The Second Circuit requested supplemental briefs addressing the impact of the Supreme Courts decision on this case which were provided in 2007.  Management believes the actions are without merit and intends to defend against the claims.
2
2
Alaskan Villages Claims  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against AEP, AEPSC and 22 other unrelated defendants including oil & gas companies, a coal company, and other electric generating companies.  The complaint alleges that the defendants' emissions of CO contribute to global warming and constitute a public and private nuisance and that the defendants are acting together.  The complaint further alleges that some of the defendants, including AEP, conspired to create a false scientific debate about global warming in order to deceive the public and perpetuate the alleged nuisance.  The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global warming will require the relocation of the village at an alleged cost of $95 million to $400 million.  The defendants filed motions to dismiss the action.  The motions are pending before the court.  Management believes the action is without merit and intends to defend against the claims.
2
 
The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
 
By-products from the generation of electricity include materials such as ash, slag, sludge, low-level radioactive waste and SNF.  Coal combustion by-products, which constitute the overwhelming percentage of these materials, are typically treated and deposited in captive disposal facilities or are beneficially utilized.  In addition, the generating plants and transmission and distribution facilities have used asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and other hazardous and nonhazardous materials.  The Registrant Subsidiaries currently incur costs to safely dispose of these substances.
Superfund addresses clean-up of hazardous substances that have been released to the environment.  The Federal EPA administers the clean-up programs.  Several states have enacted similar laws.  At December 31, 2008, APCo is named as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) for one site and CSPCo, I&M and OPCo are each named a PRP for two sites by the Federal EPA.  There are eight additional sites for which APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, and SWEPCo have received information requests which could lead to PRP designation.  I&M and SWEPCo have also been named potentially liable at two sites each under state law including the I&M site discussed in the next paragraph.  In those instances where AEP subsidiaries have been named a PRP or defendant, disposal or recycling activities were in accordance with the then-applicable laws and regulations.  Superfund does not recognize compliance as a defense, but imposes strict liability on parties who fall within its broad statutory categories.  Liability has been resolved for a number of sites with no significant effect on net income.
In March 2008, I&M received a letter from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) concerning conditions at a site under state law and requesting I&M take voluntary action necessary to prevent and/or mitigate public harm.  I&M requested remediation proposals from environmental consulting firms.  In May 2008, I&M issued a contract to one of the consulting firms.  I&M recorded approximately $4 million of expense through December 31, 2008.  As the remediation work is completed, I&Ms cost may increase.  Management cannot predict the amount of additional cost, if any.  At present, managements estimates do not anticipate material cleanup costs for this site.
Management evaluates the potential liability for each Superfund site separately, but several general statements can be made regarding potential future liability.  Disposal of materials at a particular site is often unsubstantiated and the quantity of materials deposited at a site was small and often nonhazardous.  Although Superfund liability has been interpreted by the courts as joint and several, typically many parties are named as PRPs for each site and several of the parties are financially sound enterprises.  At present, managements estimates do not anticipate material cleanup costs for identified sites.
Clean Air Interstate Rule  Affecting I&M
In 2005, the Federal EPA issued a final rule, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).  It requires specific reductions in SO and NO emissions from power plants and assists states developing new SIPs to meet the NAAQS.  CAIR reduces regional emissions of SO and NO (which can be transformed into PM and ozone) from power plants in the Eastern U.S. (29 states and the District of Columbia).  CAIR requires power plants within these states to reduce emissions of SO by 50% by 2010, and by 65% by 2015.  NO emissions will be subject to additional limits beginning in 2009, and will be reduced by a total of 70% from current levels by 2015.  Reductions of both SOand NO would be achieved through a cap-and-trade program.  In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision that would vacate CAIR and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA.  In September 2008, the Federal EPA and other parties filed petitions for rehearing.  In December 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals granted the Federal EPAs petition and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA without vacatur, allowing CAIR to remain in effect while a new rulemaking is conducted.  I&M purchased $9 million of CAIR allowances that will be used beginning in 2009.
2
x
2
x
2
x
2
x
Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown  Affecting I&M
In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and are within the vendors warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  I&M is working with its insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), and its turbine vendor, Siemens, to evaluate the extent of the damage resulting from the incident and the costs to return the unit to service.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $330 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendors warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  Managements current analysis indicates that with successful repairs and timely parts deliveries, Unit 1 could resume operations as early as September 2009 at reduced power.  If the rotors cannot be repaired, replacement of parts will extend the outage into 2010.
The refueling outage for Cook Plant Unit 2, which continues to operate at full power, will take place as scheduled in the spring of 2009.  The refueling outage scheduled for the fall of 2009 for Unit 1 is currently being evaluated.  Management anticipates that the loss of capacity from Unit 1 will not affect I&Ms ability to serve customers due to the existence of sufficient generating capacity in the AEP Power Pool.
I&M maintains property insurance through NEIL with a $1 million deductible.  As of December 31, 2008, I&M recorded $28 million in Prepayments and Other on its Consolidated Balance Sheet representing recoverable amounts under property insurance proceeds.  I&M also maintains a separate accidental outage policy with NEIL whereby, after a 12-week deductible period, I&M is entitled to weekly payments of $3.5 million for the first 52 weeks following the deductible period.  After the initial 52 weeks of indemnity, the policy pays $2.8 million per week for up to an additional 110 weeks.  I&M began receiving payments under the accidental outage policy effective December 15, 2008.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if the unit is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
In January 2009, I&M filed its regular semi-annual fuel filing in Indiana which determines the fuel rate for the period April 2009 through September 2009.  I&M filed to provide to customers a portion of the accidental outage insurance proceeds expected during the forecast period.  I&M has deferred $9 million of accidental outage insurance proceeds as of December 31, 2008 which is included in Other Current Liabilities on its Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Coal Transportation Rate Dispute - Affecting PSO
In 1985, the Burlington Northern Railroad Co. (now BNSF) entered into a coal transportation agreement with PSO.  The agreement contained a base rate subject to adjustment, a rate floor, a reopener provision and an arbitration provision.  In 1992, PSO reopened the pricing provision.  The parties failed to reach an agreement and the matter was arbitrated, with the arbitration panel establishing a lowered rate as of July 1, 1992 (the 1992 Rate), and modifying the rate adjustment formula.  The decision did not mention the rate floor.  From April 1996 through the contract termination in December 2001, the 1992 Rate exceeded the adjusted rate, determined according to the decision.  PSO paid the adjusted rate and contended that the panel eliminated the rate floor.  BNSF invoiced at the 1992 Rate and contended that the 1992 Rate was the new rate floor.  At the end of 1991, PSO terminated the contract by paying a termination fee, as required by the agreement.  BNSF contends that the termination fee should have been calculated on the 1992 Rate, not the adjusted rate, resulting in an underpayment of approximately $9.5 million, including interest.
This matter was submitted to an arbitration board.  In April 2006, the arbitration board filed its decision, denying BNSFs underpayments claim.  PSO filed a request for an order confirming the arbitration award and a request for entry of judgment on the award with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma.  On July 14, 2006, the U.S. District Court issued an order confirming the arbitration award.  On July 24, 2006, BNSF filed a Motion to Reconsider the July 14, 2006 Arbitration Confirmation Order and Final Judgment and its Motion to Vacate and Correct the Arbitration Award with the U.S. District Court.  In February 2007, the U.S. District Court granted BNSFs Motion to Reconsider.  PSO filed a substantive response to BNSFs motion and BNSF filed a reply.  Management continues to defend its position that PSO paid BNSF all amounts owed.
Rail Transportation Litigation  Affecting PSO
In October 2008, the Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority and the Public Utilities Board of the City of Brownsville, Texas, as co-owners of Oklaunion Plant, filed a lawsuit in United States District Court, Western District of Oklahoma against AEP alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duties related to negotiations for rail transportation services for the plant.  The plaintiffs allege that AEP assumed the duties of the project manager, PSO, and operated the plant for the project manager and is therefore responsible for the alleged breaches.  In December 2008, the court denied AEPs motion to dismiss the case.  Management intends to vigorously defend against these allegations.  Management believes a provision recorded in 2008 should be sufficient.
FERC Long-term Contracts  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
In 2002, the FERC held a hearing related to a complaint filed by Nevada Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power Company (the Nevada utilities).  The complaint sought to break long-term contracts entered during the 2000 and 2001 California energy price spike which the customers alleged were high-priced.  The complaint alleged that AEP subsidiaries sold power at unjust and unreasonable prices because the market for power was allegedly dysfunctional at the time such contracts were executed.  In 2003, the FERC rejected the complaint.  In 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the FERC order and remanded the case to the FERC for further proceedings.  That decision was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  In June 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the validity of contractually-agreed rates except in cases of serious harm to the public.  The U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the Ninth Circuits remand on two issues, market manipulation and excessive burden on consumers.  The FERC initiated remand procedures and gave the parties time to attempt to settle the issues. Management believes a provision recorded in 2008 should be sufficient.  The Registrant Subsidiaries asserted claims against certain companies that sold power to them, which was resold to the Nevada utilities, seeking to recover a portion of any amounts the Registrant Subsidiaries may owe to the Nevada utilities.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings or their ultimate impact on future net income and cash flows.
2008
None
2007
Darby Electric Generating Station  Affecting CSPCo
In November 2006, CSPCo agreed to purchase Darby Electric Generating Station (Darby) from DPL Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of The Dayton Power and Light Company, for $102 million and the assumption of liabilities of $2 million.  CSPCo completed the purchase in April 2007.  The Darby Plant is located near Mount Sterling, Ohio and is a natural gas, simple cycle power plant with a generating capacity of 480 MW.
2006
None
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo participate in AEP sponsored qualified pension plans (merged at December 31, 2008) and  unfunded nonqualified pension plans.  A substantial majority of employees are covered by either one qualified plan or both a qualified and a nonqualified pension plan.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo participate in OPEB plans sponsored by AEP to provide medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees.
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo adopted SFAS 158 in December 2006 and recognized the obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans in their balance sheets.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo recognize an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status and recognize, as a component of other comprehensive income, the changes in the funded status of the plan that arise during the year that are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo record a SFAS 71 regulatory asset for qualifying SFAS 158 costs of regulated operations that for ratemaking purposes are deferred for future recovery.  The effect of SFAS 158 on the 2006 financial statements was a pretax AOCI adjustment that was partially or fully offset by a SFAS 71 regulatory asset and as applicable a deferred income tax asset resulting in a net of tax AOCI equity reduction.  The following table shows the amounts:
SFAS 158 requires adjustment of pretax AOCI at the end of each year, for both underfunded and overfunded defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, to an amount equal to the remaining unrecognized deferrals for unamortized actuarial losses or gains, prior service costs and transition obligations, such that remaining deferred costs result in an AOCI equity reduction and deferred gains result in an AOCI equity addition.  The year-end AOCI measure can be volatile based on fluctuating market conditions, investment returns and discount rates.
The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in projected benefit obligations and fair value of assets for AEPs plans over the two-year period ending at the plans measurement date of December 31, 2008, and their funded status as of December 31 for each year:
Projected Plan Obligations, Plan Assets, Funded Status as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
AEP has significant investments in several trust funds to provide for future pension and OPEB payments.  All of the trust funds investments are diversified and managed in compliance with all laws and regulations.  The value of the investments in these trusts declined substantially in 2008 due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are lower, this decline has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.
Amounts Recognized on AEPs Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
 
SFAS 158 Amounts Recognized in AEPs Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
 
Components of the Change in AEPs Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Pretax AOCI during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans Assets
The asset allocations for AEPs pension plans at the end of 2008 and 2007, and the target allocation for 2009 by asset category, are as follows:
 
 
The asset allocations for AEPs OPEB plans at the end of 2008 and 2007, and target allocation for 2009 by asset category, are as follows:
 
AEPs investment strategy for the employee benefit trust funds is to use a diversified portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable rate of return while managing the interest rate sensitivity of the plans assets relative to the plans liabilities.  To minimize investment risk, AEPs employee benefit trust funds are broadly diversified among classes of assets, investment strategies and investment managers.  AEP regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the investments to AEPs targeted allocation when considered appropriate.  AEPs investment policies and guidelines allow investment managers in approved strategies to use financial derivatives to obtain or manage market exposures and to hedge assets and liabilities.  AEPs investment policies prohibit the benefit trust funds from purchasing AEP securities (with the exception of proportionate and immaterial holdings of AEP securities in passive index strategies).  However, AEPs investment policies do not preclude the benefit trust funds from receiving contributions in the form of AEP securities, provided that the AEP securities acquired by each plan may not exceed the limitations imposed by law, including ERISA.
The value of the pension plans assets decreased substantially to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008 from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2007.  The qualified plans paid $289 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008 (nonqualified plans paid $7 million in benefits).  The value of AEPs OPEB plans assets decreased substantially to $1 billion at December 31, 2008 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007.  The OPEB plans paid $120 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008.
AEP bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets which reduces year-to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets.  Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded.
For the underfunded pension plans that had an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets of these plans at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
Actuarial Assumptions for Benefit Obligations
The weighted-average assumptions as of December 31, used in the measurement of AEPs benefit obligations are shown in the following tables:
To determine a discount rate, AEP uses a duration-based method by constructing a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds similar to those included in the Moodys Aa bond index with a duration matching the benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio is used as the discount rate for the plan.
For 2008, the rate of compensation increase assumed varies with the age of the employee, ranging from 5% per year to 11.5% per year, with an average increase of 5.9%.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments and Contributions
Information about the 2009 expected cash flows for AEPs pension (qualified and nonqualified) and OPEB plans is as follows:
 
The contribution to the pension plans is based on the minimum amount required by ERISA plus the amount to pay unfunded nonqualified benefits.  The contribution to the OPEB plans is generally based on the amount of the OPEB plans periodic benefit cost for accounting purposes as provided for in agreements with state regulatory authorities, plus the additional discretionary contribution of AEPs Medicare subsidy receipts.
The table below reflects the total benefits expected to be paid from the plan or from the employers assets, including both the employers share of the benefit cost and the participants share of the cost, which is funded by participant contributions to the plan.  Medicare subsidy receipts are shown in the year of the corresponding benefit payments, even though actual cash receipts are expected early in the following year.  Future benefit payments are dependent on the number of employees retiring, whether the retiring employees elect to receive pension benefits as annuities or as lump sum distributions, future integration of the benefit plans with changes to Medicare and other legislation, future levels of interest rates, and variances in actuarial results.  The estimated payments for AEPs pension benefits and OPEB are as follows:
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
The following table provides the components of AEPs net periodic benefit cost for the plans for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
Estimated amounts expected to be amortized to net periodic benefit costs for AEPs plans during 2009 are shown in the following table:
 
Net Benefit Cost by Registrant
The following table provides the net periodic benefit cost (credit) for the plans by Registrant Subsidiary for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
Actuarial Assumptions for Net Periodic Benefit Costs
The weighted-average assumptions as of January 1, used in the measurement of AEPs benefit costs are shown in the following tables:
 
The expected return on plan assets for 2008 was determined by evaluating historical returns, the current investment climate (yield on fixed income securities and other recent investment market indicators), rate of inflation, and current prospects for economic growth.
The health care trend rate assumptions as of January 1, used for OPEB plans measurement purposes are shown below:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the OPEB health care plans.  A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plans
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo participate in an AEP sponsored defined contribution retirement savings plan, the American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plan, for substantially all employees who are not members of the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA).  This qualified plan offers participants an opportunity to contribute a portion of their pay, includes features under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code and provides for company matching contributions.  The matching contributions to the plan was 75% of the first 6% of eligible compensation contributed by the employee in 2008.  Effective January 1, 2009, the match is 100% of the first 1% of eligible employee contributions and 70% of the next 5% of contributions.
The amounts of contributions below for SWEPCo include a legacy savings plan of an acquired subsidiary.
The following table provides the cost for contributions to the retirement savings plans by the Registrant Subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
UMWA Benefits
APCo, CSPCo and OPCo provide UMWA pension, health and welfare benefits for certain unionized mining employees, retirees, and their survivors who meet eligibility requirements.  UMWA trustees make final interpretive determinations with regard to all benefits.  The pension benefits are administered by UMWA trustees and contributions are made to their trust funds.
The health and welfare benefits are administered by APCo, CSPCo and OPCo.  Benefits are paid from their general assets.  Contributions were not material in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
I&M owns and operates the two-unit 2,110 MW Cook Plant under licenses granted by the NRC.  A significant future financial commitment to safely dispose of SNF and to decommission and decontaminate the plant results from its ownership.  The licenses to operate the two nuclear units at the Cook Plant expire in 2034 and 2037.  The operation of a nuclear facility also involves special risks, potential liabilities, and specific regulatory and safety requirements.  Should a nuclear incident occur at any nuclear power plant in the U.S., the resultant liability could be substantial.  By agreement, I&M is partially liable together with all other electric utility companies that own nuclear generating units for a nuclear power plant incident at any nuclear plant in the U.S.
Decommissioning and Low Level Waste Accumulation Disposal
The cost to decommission a nuclear plant is affected by NRC regulations and the SNF disposal program.  Decommissioning costs are accrued over the service life of the Cook Plant.  The most recent decommissioning study was performed in 2006.  According to that study, the estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-level radioactive waste ranges from $733 million to $1.3 billion in 2006 nondiscounted dollars.  The wide range in estimated costs is caused by variables in assumptions.  I&M recovers estimated decommissioning costs for the Cook Plant in its rates.  The amount recovered in rates was $27 million in 2008, $32 million in 2007 and $30 million in 2006.  Decommissioning costs recovered from customers are deposited in external trusts.  The settlement agreement in I&Ms base rate case will reduce the annual decommissioning cost recovery amount effective in 2009 to reflect the extension of the units operating licenses granted by the NRC.
I&M deposited an additional $4 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in its decommissioning trust under funding provisions approved by regulatory commissions.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the total decommissioning trust fund balance was $959 million and $1.1 billion, respectively.  Trust fund earnings increase the fund assets and decrease the amount remaining to be recovered from ratepayers.  The decommissioning costs (including interest, unrealized gains and losses and expenses of the trust funds) increase or decrease the recorded liability.
I&M continues to work with regulators and customers to recover the remaining estimated costs of decommissioning the Cook Plant.  However, future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition would be adversely affected if the cost of SNF disposal and decommissioning continues to increase and cannot be recovered.
SNF Disposal
The Federal government is responsible for permanent SNF disposal and assesses fees to nuclear plant owners for SNF disposal.  A fee of one mill per KWH for fuel consumed after April 6, 1983 at the Cook Plant is being collected from customers and remitted to the U.S. Treasury.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, fees and related interest of $264 million and $259 million, respectively, for fuel consumed prior to April 7, 1983 have been recorded as Long-term Debt and funds collected from customers along with related earnings totaling $301 million and $285 million, respectively, to pay the fee are recorded as part of Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts.  I&M has not paid the government the pre-April 1983 fees due to continued delays and uncertainties related to the federal disposal program.
Trust Assets for Decommissioning and SNF Disposal
I&M records securities held in trust funds for decommissioning nuclear facilities and for the disposal of SNF at market value.  I&M classifies securities in the trust funds as available-for-sale due to their long-term purpose.  As discussed in the Nuclear Trust Funds section of Note 1, I&M records unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairments from securities in these trust funds as adjustments to the regulatory liability account for the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and to regulatory assets or liabilities for the SNF disposal trust funds in accordance with their treatment in rates.  The gains, losses or other-than-temporary impairments shown below did not affect earnings or AOCI.  The trust assets are recorded by jurisdiction and may not be used for another jurisdictions liabilities.  Regulatory approval is required to withdraw decommissioning funds.
See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements section of Note 11 for disclosure of the fair value of assets within the trust.
The following is a summary of nuclear trust fund investments at December 31:
Proceeds from sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $732 million, $696 million and $631 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Purchases of nuclear trust fund investments were $804 million, $777 million and $692 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Gross realized gains from the sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $33 million, $15 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Gross realized losses from the sales of nuclear trust fund investments were $7 million, $5 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The fair value of debt securities held in the nuclear trust funds, summarized by contractual maturities, at December 31, 2008 was as follows:
Nuclear Incident Liability
I&M carries insurance coverage for property damage, decommissioning and decontamination at the Cook Plant in the amount of $1.8 billion.  I&M purchases $1 billion of excess coverage for property damage, decommissioning and decontamination.  Additional insurance provides coverage for weekly indemnity payments resulting from an insured accidental outage.  I&M utilizes an industry mutual insurer for the placement of this insurance coverage.  I&Ms participation in this mutual insurer requires a contingent financial obligation of up to $37 million which is assessable if the insurers financial resources would be inadequate to pay for losses.
The Price-Anderson Act, extended through December 31, 2025, establishes insurance protection for public liability arising from a nuclear incident at $12.5 billion and covers any incident at a licensed reactor in the U.S.  Commercially available insurance, which must be carried for each licensed reactor, provides $300 million of coverage.  In the event of a nuclear incident at any nuclear plant in the U.S., the remainder of the liability would be provided by a deferred premium assessment of $117.5 million on each licensed reactor in the U.S. payable in annual installments of $17.5 million.  As a result, I&M could be assessed $235 million per nuclear incident payable in annual installments of $35 million.  The number of incidents for which payments could be required is not limited.
In the event of an incident of a catastrophic nature, I&M is initially covered for the first $300 million through commercially available insurance.  The next level of liability coverage of up to $12.2 billion would be covered by claims made under the Price-Anderson Act.  If the liability were in excess of amounts recoverable from insurance and retrospective claim payments made under the Price-Anderson Act, I&M would seek to recover those amounts from customers through rate increases.  In the event nuclear losses or liabilities are underinsured or exceed accumulated funds and recovery from customers is not possible, net income, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.
The Registrant Subsidiaries have one reportable segment, an integrated electricity generation, transmission and distribution business.  All of the Registrant Subsidiaries other activities are insignificant.  The Registrant Subsidiaries operations are managed on an integrated basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight on the business process, cost structures and operating results.
DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING
SFAS 133 requires recognition of all qualifying derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position at fair value.  The fair values of derivative instruments accounted for using MTM accounting or hedge accounting are based on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the best information available including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes and supply and demand market data and assumptions.  The fair values determined are reduced by the appropriate valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit quality.  Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to the contract will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due.  Liquidity risk represents the risk that imperfections in the market will cause the price to be less than or more than what the price should be based purely on supply and demand.  Since energy markets are imperfect and volatile, there are inherent risks related to the underlying assumptions in models used to fair value risk management contracts.  Unforeseen events can and will cause reasonable price curves to differ from actual prices throughout a contracts term and at the time a contract settles.  Therefore, there could be significant adverse or favorable effects on future net income and cash flows if market prices are not consistent with managements approach at estimating current market consensus for forward prices in the current period.  This is particularly true for long-term contracts.
Certain qualifying derivative instruments have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales contracts, as provided in SFAS 133.  Derivative contracts that have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales under SFAS 133 are not subject to MTM accounting treatment and are recognized in the income statements on an accrual basis.
The Registrant Subsidiaries accounting for the changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies for and has been designated as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship.  Depending on the exposure, the Registrant Subsidiaries designate a hedging instrument as a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge. For fair value hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk), the Registrant Subsidiaries recognize the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item associated with the hedged risk in net income during the period of change.  For cash flow hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), the Registrant Subsidiaries initially report the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the balance sheets until the period the hedged item affects net income.  The Registrant Subsidiaries recognize hedge ineffectiveness in net income immediately during the period of change, except in regulated jurisdictions (APCo, I&M, PSO and the non-Texas portion of SWEPCo) where hedge ineffectiveness is recorded as a regulatory asset (for losses) or a regulatory liability (for gains).
For contracts that have not been designated as part of a hedging relationship, the accounting for changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative instrument is held for trading purposes.  Unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments held for trading purposes are included in Revenues on a net basis in the statements of income.  Unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments not held for trading purposes are included in Revenues or Expenses on the statements of income depending on the relevant facts and circumstances.  However, unrealized gains and losses in regulated jurisdictions for both trading and non-trading derivative instruments are recorded as a regulatory asset (for losses) or a regulatory liability (for gains).
Fair Value Hedging Strategies
At certain times, the Registrant Subsidiaries enter into interest rate derivative transactions in order to manage existing fixed interest rate risk exposure.  These interest rate derivative transactions effectively modify exposure to interest rate risk by converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to a floating rate.  The Registrant Subsidiaries record gains or losses on swaps that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment, as well as offsetting changes in the fair value of the debt being hedged, in Interest Expense on the statements of income.  At various times during 2008, 2007 and 2006, APCo and I&M designated interest rate derivatives as fair value hedges and did not recognize any hedge ineffectiveness related to these derivative transactions.
Cash Flow Hedging Strategies
The Registrant Subsidiaries enter into, and designate as cash flow hedges, certain derivative transactions for the purchase and sale of electricity, coal and natural gas in order to manage the variable price risk related to the forecasted purchase and sale of these commodities.  Management closely monitors the potential impacts of commodity price changes and, where appropriate, enters into derivative transactions to protect margins for a portion of future electricity sales and fuel purchases.  Realized gains and losses on these derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are included in Revenues, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation or Purchased Electricity for Resale on the statements of income, depending on the specific nature of the risk being hedged.  The Registrant Subsidiaries do not hedge all variable price risk exposure related to energy commodities.  At various times during 2008, 2007 and 2006, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo designated cash flow hedge relationships using these commodities and recognized immaterial amounts in net income related to hedge ineffectiveness.
The Registrant Subsidiaries enter into various derivative instruments to manage interest rate exposure related to anticipated borrowings of fixed-rate debt, or to manage floating-rate debt exposure by converting it to a fixed rate.  The anticipated debt offerings have a high probability of occurrence because the proceeds will be used to fund existing debt maturities as well as fund projected capital expenditures.  The Registrant Subsidiaries reclassify gains and losses on the hedges from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) into Interest Expense in those periods in which the interest payments being hedged occur.  At various times during 2008, 2007 and 2006, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo designated interest rate derivatives as cash flow hedges and recognized immaterial amounts in net income due to hedge ineffectiveness.
At times, certain Registrant Subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks because they may purchase certain fixed assets from foreign suppliers.  In accordance with AEPs risk management policy, the Registrant Subsidiaries may enter into foreign currency derivative transactions to protect against the risk of increased cash outflows resulting from a foreign currencys appreciation against the dollar.  The accumulated gains or losses related to these foreign currency hedges are reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) into operating expenses over the as the depreciable lives of the fixed assets that were designated as the hedged items in qualifying foreign currency hedging relationships.  At various times during 2008, 2007 and 2006, APCo, OPCo and SWEPCo designated foreign currency derivatives as cash flow hedges and did not recognize any hedge ineffectiveness related to these derivative transactions.  The Registrant Subsidiaries do not hedge all foreign currency exposure.
The following table represents the activity in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for derivative contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2008:
The following table approximates the net (loss) gain from cash flow hedges in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) at December 31, 2008 that are expected to be reclassified to net income in the next twelve months as the items being hedged settle.  In addition, the following table summarizes the maximum length of time that the variability of future cash flows is being hedged.  The actual amounts reclassified from AOCI to Net Income can differ as a result of market price changes.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if counterparties fail to perform their contractual obligations.  The Registrant Subsidiaries limit their credit risk by maintaining stringent credit policies whereby the Registrant Subsidiaries assess a counterpartys creditworthiness prior to transacting with them and continue to assess their creditworthiness on an ongoing basis.  The Registrant Subsidiaries employ the use of standardized master agreements which may include collateral requirements.  These master agreements facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty.  Cash, letters of credit, and parental/affiliate guarantees may be obtained as security from counterparties in order to mitigate credit risk.  The collateral agreements require a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit in the event an exposure is exceeded in excess of an established threshold.  The threshold represents an unsecured credit limit which may be supported by a parental/affiliate guaranty, as determined in accordance with AEPs credit policy.  In addition, collateral agreements also provide that the failure or inability to post collateral is sufficient cause for termination and liquidation of all positions.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
SFAS 107 Fair Value Measurements
The fair values of Long-term Debt are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues and the current interest rates offered for instruments with similar maturities.  These instruments are not marked-to-market.  The estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange.
The book values and fair values of Long-term Debt for the Registrant Subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are summarized in the following table:
SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements
As described in Note 2, the Registrant Subsidiaries completed the adoption of SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2009.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.  The adoption of SFAS 157 had an immaterial impact on the Registrant Subsidiaries financial statements.  The provisions of SFAS 157 are applied prospectively, except for a) changes in fair value measurements of existing derivative financial instruments measured initially using the transaction price under EITF Issue No. 02-3 Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 02-3), b) existing hybrid financial instruments measured initially at fair value using the transaction price and c) blockage discount factors.  Although the statement is applied prospectively upon adoption, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 157 related to EITF 02-3, APCo, CSPCo and OPCo reduced beginning retained earnings by $440 thousand ($286 thousand, net of tax), $486 thousand ($316 thousand, net of tax) and $434 thousand ($282 thousand, net of tax), respectively, for the transition adjustment.  SWEPCos transition adjustment was a favorable $16 thousand ($10 thousand, net of tax) adjustment to beginning retained earnings.  The impact of considering AEPs credit risk when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives, had an immaterial impact on fair value measurements upon adoption.
In accordance with SFAS 157, assets and liabilities are classified based on the inputs utilized in the fair value measurement.  SFAS 157 provides definitions for two types of inputs: observable and unobservable.  Observable inputs are valuation inputs that reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity.  Unobservable inputs are valuation inputs that reflect the reporting entitys own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information in the circumstances.
As defined in SFAS 157, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price).  SFAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurement) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurement).
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.  Level 1 inputs primarily consist of exchange traded contracts, listed equities and U.S. government treasury securities that exhibit sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.  If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.  Level 2 inputs primarily consist of OTC broker quotes in moderately active or less active markets, exchange traded contracts where there was not sufficient market activity to warrant inclusion in level 1, OTC broker quotes that are corroborated by the same or similar transactions that have occurred in the market and certain non-exchange-traded debt securities.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.  Unobservable inputs shall be used to measure fair value to the extent that the observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.  Level 3 inputs primarily consist of unobservable market data or are valued based on models and/or assumptions.
Risk Management Contracts include exchange traded, OTC and bilaterally executed derivative contracts.  Exchange traded derivatives, namely futures contracts, are generally fair valued based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and are classified within level 1.  Other actively traded derivative fair values are verified using broker or dealer quotations, similar observable market transactions in either the listed or OTC markets, or valued using pricing models where significant valuation inputs are directly or indirectly observable in active markets.  Derivative instruments, primarily swaps, forwards, and options that meet these characteristics are classified within level 2.  Bilaterally executed agreements are derivative contracts entered into directly with third parties, and at times these instruments may be complex structured transactions that are tailored to meet the specific customers energy requirements.  Structured transactions utilize pricing models that are widely accepted in the energy industry to measure fair value.  Management uses a consistent modeling approach to value similar instruments.  Valuation models utilize various inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, market corroborated inputs (i.e. inputs derived principally from, or correlated to, observable market data), and other observable inputs for the asset or liability.  Where observable inputs are available for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in level 2.  Certain OTC and bilaterally executed derivative instruments are executed in less active markets with a lower availability of pricing information.  In addition, long-dated and illiquid complex or structured transactions can introduce the need for internally developed modeling inputs based upon extrapolations and assumptions of observable market data to estimate fair value.  When such inputs have a significant impact on the measurement of fair value, the instrument is categorized in level 3.  In certain instances, the fair values of the transactions included in level 3 that use internally developed model inputs are offset partially or in full, by transactions included in level 2 where observable market data exists for the offsetting transaction.
The following table sets forth by level within the fair value hierarchy the Registrant Subsidiaries financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008.  As required by SFAS 157, financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  Managements assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of net trading derivatives classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy:
The details of the Registrant Subsidiaries income taxes before extraordinary loss as reported are as follows:
Shown below is a reconciliation for each Registrant Subsidiary of the difference between the amount of federal income taxes computed by multiplying book income before income taxes by the federal statutory rate and the amount of income taxes reported.
The following tables show the elements of the net deferred tax liability and the significant temporary differences for each Registrant Subsidiary:
The Registrant Subsidiaries join in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return with their affiliates in the AEP System.  The allocation of the AEP Systems current consolidated federal income tax to the AEP System companies allocates the benefit of current tax losses to the AEP System companies giving rise to such losses in determining their current tax expense.  The tax benefit of the Parent is allocated to its subsidiaries with taxable income.  With the exception of the loss of the Parent, the method of allocation reflects a separate return result for each company in the consolidated group.
The Registrant Subsidiaries are no longer subject to U.S. federal examination for years before 2000.  The Registrant Subsidiaries have completed the exam for the years 2001 through 2003 and have issues that are being pursued at the appeals level.  The returns for the years 2004 through 2006 are presently under audit by the IRS.  Although the outcome of tax audits is uncertain, in managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for potential liabilities resulting from such matters.  In addition, the Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest on these uncertain tax positions.  Management is not aware of any issues for open tax years that upon final resolution are expected to have a material adverse effect on net income.
The Registrant Subsidiaries file income tax returns in various state and local jurisdictions.  These taxing authorities routinely examine their tax returns and the Registrant Subsidiaries are currently under examination in several state and local jurisdictions.  Management believes that previously filed tax returns have positions that may be challenged by these tax authorities.  However, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of these audits will materially impact net income.  With few exceptions, the Registrant Subsidiaries are no longer subject to state or local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2000.
Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, the Registrant Subsidiaries recorded interest and penalty expense related to uncertain tax positions in tax expense accounts.  With the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, the Registrant Subsidiaries began recognizing interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions in interest income or expense as applicable, and penalties in Other Operation.  The impact of this interpretation was an unfavorable (favorable) adjustment to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings as follows:
The following table shows the amounts reported for interest expense, interest income and reversal of prior period interest expense.
 
The following table shows the amount accrued for the receipt of interest as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
The following table shows the amount accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
The reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Management believes that there will be no significant net increase or decrease in unrecognized benefits within 12 months of the reporting date.  The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate for each Registrant Subsidiary was as follows:
Federal Tax Legislation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo and OPCo
In 2005, the Energy Tax Incentives Act of 2005 was signed into law.  This act created a limited amount of tax credits for the building of IGCC plants.  The credit is 20% of the eligible property in the construction of new plant or 20% of the total cost of repowering of an existing plant using IGCC technology.  In the case of a newly constructed IGCC plant, eligible property is defined as the components necessary for the gasification of coal, including any coal handling and gas separation equipment.  AEP announced plans to construct two new IGCC plants that may be eligible for the allocation of these credits.  AEP filed applications for the Mountaineer and Great Bend projects with the DOE and the IRS.  Both projects were certified by the DOE and qualified by the IRS.  However, neither project was allocated credits during this round of credit awards.  After one of the original credit recipients surrendered its credits in the Fall of 2007, the IRS announced a supplemental credit round for the Spring of 2008.  AEP filed a new application in 2008 for the West Virginia IGCC project and in July 2008 the IRS allocated the project $134 million in credits.  In September 2008, AEP entered into a memorandum of understanding with the IRS concerning the requirements of claiming the credits.
Federal Tax Legislation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Several tax bills and other legislation with tax-related sections were enacted in 2006 and 2007, including the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, the Tax Technical Corrections Act of 2007, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2007 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.  The tax law changes enacted in 2006 and 2007 did not materially affect the Registrant Subsidiaries net income, cash flows or financial condition.
The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 was signed into law by the President in February 2008.  It provided enhanced expensing provisions for certain assets placed in service in 2008 and a 50% bonus depreciation provision similar to the one in effect in 2003 through 2004 for assets placed in service in 2008.  The enacted provisions did not have a material impact on net income or financial condition, but provided a material favorable cash flow benefit for each Registrant Subsidiary as follows:
In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the 2008 Act) was signed into law.  The 2008 Act extended several expiring tax provisions and added new energy incentive provisions.  The legislation impacted the availability of research credits, accelerated depreciation of smart meters, production tax credits and energy efficient commercial building deductions.  Management has evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact net income, cash flows or financial condition.
In February 2009, theAmerican Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 (the 2009 Act) was signed into law.  The 2009 Act extended the bonus depreciation deduction for one year and provides for a long-term extension of the renewable production tax credit for wind energy and other properties.  The 2009 Act also establishes a new investment tax credit for the manufacture of advanced energy property as well as appropriations for advanced energy research projects, carbon capture and storage and gridSMART technology.  Management has evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact net income or financial condition, but is expected to have a positive material impact on cash flows.
 
State Tax Legislation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
In June 2005, the Governor of Ohio signed Ohio House Bill 66 into law enacting sweeping tax changes impacting all companies doing business in Ohio.  Most of the significant tax changes will be phased in over a five-year period, while some of the less significant changes became fully effective July 1, 2005.  Changes to the Ohio franchise tax, nonutility property taxes, and the new commercial activity tax are subject to phase-in.  The Ohio franchise tax will fully phase-out over a five-year period beginning with a 20% reduction in state franchise tax for taxable income accrued during 2005.  In 2005, AEP reversed deferred state income tax liabilities that are not expected to reverse during the phase-out as follows:
In November 2006, the PUCO ordered OPCo and CSPCo to amortize $42 million and $15 million, respectively, to income as an offset to power supply contract losses incurred by OPCo and CSPCo for sales to Ormet.  At December 31, 2008 both regulatory liabilities were fully amortized.
The Ohio legislation also imposed a new commercial activity tax at a fully phased-in rate of 0.26% on all Ohio gross receipts.  The new tax is being phased-in over a five-year period that began July 1, 2005 at 23% of the full 0.26% rate.  As a result of this new tax, expenses of approximately $4 million, $3 million and $2 million each for CSPCo and OPCo were recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, in Taxes Other than Income Taxes.
State Tax Legislation  Affecting PSO and SWEPCo
In the second quarter of 2006, the Texas state legislature replaced the existing franchise/income tax with a gross margin tax at a 1% rate for electric utilities.  Overall, the law reduced Texas income tax rates and was effective January 1, 2007.  The new gross margin tax is income-based for purposes of the application of SFAS 109.  Based on the new law, management reviewed deferred tax liabilities with consideration given to the rate changes and changes to the allowed deductible items with temporary differences.  As a result, in the second quarter of 2006 the following adjustments were recorded:
State Tax Legislation  Affecting APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo
In July 2007, the Governor of Michigan signed Michigan Senate Bill 0094 (MBT Act) and related companion bills into law providing a comprehensive restructuring of Michigans principal business tax.  The new law is effective January 1, 2008 and replaces the Michigan Single Business Tax that expired at the end of 2007.  The MBT Act is composed of a new tax which will be calculated based upon two components:  (a) a business income tax (BIT) imposed at a rate of 4.95% and (b) a modified gross receipts tax (GRT) imposed at a rate of 0.80%, which will collectively be referred to as the BIT/GRT tax calculation.  The new law also includes significant credits for engaging in Michigan-based activity.
In September 2007, the Governor of Michigan signed House Bill 5198 which amends the MBT Act to provide for a new deduction on the BIT and GRT tax returns equal to the book-tax basis difference triggered as a result of the enactment of the MBT Act.  This new state-only temporary difference will be deducted over a 15 year period on the MBT Act tax returns starting in 2015.  The purpose of the new MBT Act state deduction was to provide companies relief from the recordation of the SFAS 109 Income Tax Liability.  Management has evaluated the impact of the MBT Act and the application of the MBT Act will not materially affect net income, cash flows or financial condition.
In March 2008, the Governor of West Virginia signed legislation providing for, among other things, a reduction in the West Virginia corporate income tax rate from 8.75% to 8.5% beginning in 2009.  The corporate income tax rate could also be reduced to 7.75% in 2012 and 7% in 2013 contingent upon the state government achieving certain minimum levels of shortfall reserve funds.  Management has evaluated the impact of the law change and the application of the law change will not materially impact net income, cash flows or financial condition.
Leases of property, plant and equipment are for periods up to 60 years and require payments of related property taxes, maintenance and operating costs.  The majority of the leases have purchase or renewal options and will be renewed or replaced by other leases.
Lease rentals for both operating and capital leases are generally charged to Other Operation and Maintenance expense in accordance with rate-making treatment for regulated operations.  Capital leases for nonregulated property are accounted for as if the assets were owned and financed.  The components of rental costs are as follows:
The following table shows the property, plant and equipment under capital leases and related obligations recorded on the Registrant Subsidiaries balance sheets.  For I&M, current capital lease obligations are included in Obligations Under Capital Leases on I&Ms Consolidated Balance Sheets.  For all other Registrant Subsidiaries, current capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other.  For all Registrant Subsidiaries, long-term capital lease obligations are included in Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other on the Registrant Subsidiaries balance sheets.
Future minimum lease payments consisted of the following at December 31, 2008:
Master Lease Agreements
Certain Registrant Subsidiaries lease certain equipment under master lease agreements.  GE Capital Commercial Inc. (GE) notified management in November 2008 that they elected to terminate the Master Leasing Agreements in accordance with the termination rights specified within the contract.  In 2010 and 2011, the Registrant Subsidiaries will be required to purchase all equipment under the lease and pay GE an amount equal to the unamortized value of all equipment then leased.  As a result, the following unamortized values for this equipment is reflected in the Registrant Subsidiaries future minimum lease payments for 2011:
In addition, an immaterial amount for the unamortized value of the equipment is included in the Registrant Subsidiaries future minimum lease payments for 2010. In December 2008, management signed new master lease agreements with one-year commitment periods that include lease terms of up to 10 years.  Management expects to enter into additional replacement leasing arrangements for the equipment affected by this notification prior to the termination dates of 2010 and 2011.
For equipment under the GE master lease agreements that expire prior to 2011, the lessor is guaranteed receipt of up to 87% of the unamortized balance of the equipment at the end of the lease term.  If the fair market value of the leased equipment is below the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term, the Registrant Subsidiaries are committed to pay the difference between the fair market value and the unamortized balance, with the total guarantee not to exceed 87% of the unamortized balance.  Under the new master lease agreements, the lessor is guaranteed receipt of up to 68% of the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term.  If the actual fair market value of the leased equipment is below the unamortized balance at the end of the lease term, the Registrant Subsidiaries are committed to pay the difference between the actual fair market value and unamortized balance, with the total guarantee not to exceed 68% of the unamortized balance.  At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential loss by Registrant Subsidiary for these lease agreements assuming the fair market value of the equipment is zero at the end of the lease term is as follows:
Rockport Lease
AEGCo and I&M entered into a sale-and-leaseback transaction in 1989 with Wilmington Trust Company (Owner Trustee), an unrelated, unconsolidated trustee for Rockport Plant Unit 2 (the Plant).  The Owner Trustee was capitalized with equity from six owner participants with no relationship to AEP or any of its subsidiaries and debt from a syndicate of banks and securities in a private placement to certain institutional investors.
The gain from the sale was deferred and is being amortized over the term of the lease, which expires in 2022.  The Owner Trustee owns the Plant and leases it to AEGCo and I&M.  The lease is accounted for as an operating lease with the payment obligations included in the future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.  The lease term is for 33 years with potential renewal options.  At the end of the lease term, AEGCo and I&M have the option to renew the lease or the Owner Trustee can sell the Plant.  Neither AEGCo, I&M nor AEP has an ownership interest in the Owner Trustee and do not guarantee its debt.  The future minimum lease payments for this sale-and-leaseback transaction for each respective company as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:
Railcar Lease
In June 2003, AEP Transportation LLC (AEP Transportation), a subsidiary of AEP, entered into an agreement with BTM Capital Corporation, as lessor, to lease 875 coal-transporting aluminum railcars.  The lease is accounted for as an operating lease.  In January 2008, AEP Transportation assigned the remaining 848 railcars under the original lease agreement to I&M (390 railcars) and SWEPCo (458 railcars).  The assignment is accounted for as new operating leases for I&M and SWEPCo.  The initial lease term was five years with three consecutive five-year renewal periods for a maximum lease term of twenty years.  I&M and SWEPCo intend to renew these leases for the full lease term of twenty years, via the renewal options.  The future minimum lease obligations are $20 million for I&M and $23 million for SWEPCo for the remaining railcars as of December 31, 2008.  These obligations are included in I&Ms and SWEPCos future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.
Under the lease agreement, the lessor is guaranteed that the sale proceeds under a return-and-sale option will equal at least a lessee obligation amount specified in the lease, which declines from approximately 84% under the current five year lease term to 77% at the end of the 20 year term of the projected fair market value of the equipment.  I&M and SWEPCo have assumed the guarantee under the return-and-sale option.  I&Ms maximum potential loss related to the guarantee is approximately $12 million ($8 million, net of tax) and SWEPCos is approximately $13 million ($9 million, net of tax) assuming the fair market value of the equipment is zero at the end of the current five-year lease term  However, management believes that the fair market value would produce a sufficient sales price to avoid any loss.
.
The Registrant Subsidiaries have other railcar lease arrangements that do not utilize this type of financing structure.
Sabine Dragline Lease
In December 2006, Sabine Mining Company (Sabine), an entity consolidated under FIN 46R, entered into a capital lease agreement with a nonaffiliated company to finance the purchase of a $53 million electric dragline for Sabines mining operations.  In 2006, the initial capital outlay for the dragline was $26 million.  Sabine incurred an additional $14 million and $13 million of transportation, assembly and upgrade costs in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The dragline was completed in August 2008.  For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Sabine paid $1 million and $2 million, respectively, of interim rent prior to the completion in August 2008.  Sabine began quarterly principal and interest payments on the outstanding lease obligation in November 2008.  The capital lease asset was included in Property, Plant and Equipment  Other and Construction Work in Progress on SWEPCos December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.  The short-term and long-term capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other and Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other on SWEPCos December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The future payment obligations are included in SWEPCos future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.
I&M Nuclear Fuel Lease
In December 2007, I&M entered into a sale-and-leaseback transaction with Citicorp Leasing, Inc. (CLI), an unrelated, unconsolidated, wholly-owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. to lease nuclear fuel for I&Ms Cook Plant.  In December 2007, I&M sold a portion of its unamortized nuclear fuel inventory to CLI at cost for $85 million.  The lease has a variable rate based on one month LIBOR and is accounted for as a capital lease with lease terms up to 60 months.  The future payment obligations of $57 million are included in I&Ms future minimum lease payments schedule earlier in this note.  The net capital lease asset is included in Property, Plant and Equipment  Other and the short-term and long-term capital lease obligations are included in Current Liabilities  Other and Noncurrent Liabilities  Deferred Credits and Other, respectively, on I&Ms December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The future minimum lease payments for this sale-and-leaseback transaction as of December 31, 2008 are as follows, based on estimated fuel burn:
14.      
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Preferred Stock
Long-term Debt
There are certain limitations on establishing liens against the Registrant Subsidiaries assets under their respective indentures.  None of the long-term debt obligations of the Registrant Subsidiaries have been guaranteed or secured by AEP or any of its affiliates.
The following details long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
At December 31, 2008 future annual long-term debt payments are as follows:
In January 2009, I&M issued $475 million of 7.00% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019.
In January 2009, AEP Parent loaned I&M $25 million of 5.375% Notes Payable due in 2010.
In February 2009, PSO reissued $33.7 million of 5.25% Pollution Control Bonds due in 2014.
In the first quarter of 2008, bond insurers exposure in connection with developments in the subprime credit market resulted in increasing occurrences of failed auctions for tax-exempt long-term debt sold at auction rates.  Consequently, the Registrant Subsidiaries chose to exit the auction-rate debt market and reduced auction-rate securities from the December 2007 balance by $1.1 billion.  As of December 31, 2008, OPCo had $218 million of tax-exempt long-term debt sold at auction rates (rates range between 6.388% and 13%) that reset every 35 days.  OPCos debt relates to a lease structure with JMG that OPCo is unable to refinance without their consent.  The initial term for the JMG lease structure matures on March 31, 2010 and management is evaluating whether to terminate this facility prior to maturity.  Termination of this facility requires approval from the PUCO.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo had $53.5 million of tax-exempt long-term debt sold at auction rates (rate of 2.034%) that reset every 35 days.  The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow for conversion to other short-term variable-rate structures, term-put structures and fixed-rate structures.
The following table shows the current status of debt as of December 31, 2008 which was issued as auction-rate debt at December 31, 2007:
Dividend Restrictions
Under the Federal Power Act, the Registrant Subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends out of stated capital.
Trust Preferred Securities
SWEPCo had a wholly-owned business trust that issued trust preferred securities.  Effective July 1, 2003, the trust was deconsolidated due to the implementation of FIN 46R.  The SWEPCo trust, which held mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities, is reported as two components on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The investment in the trust, which was $3 million as of December 31, 2007, is reported as Deferred Charges and Other within Other Noncurrent Assets.  The Junior Subordinated Debentures, in the amount of $113 million as of December 31, 2007, are reported as Notes Payable to Trust within Long-term Debt  Nonaffiliated.  Both the investment in the trust and the Junior Subordinated Debentures were retired in 2008.
Utility Money Pool  AEP System
The AEP System uses a corporate borrowing program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of its subsidiaries.  The corporate borrowing program includes a Utility Money Pool, which funds the utility subsidiaries.  The AEP System corporate borrowing program operates in accordance with the terms and conditions approved in a regulatory order.  The amount of outstanding loans (borrowings) to/from the Utility Money Pool as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are included in Advances to/from Affiliates on each of the Registrant Subsidiaries balance sheets.  The Utility Money Pool participants money pool activity and their corresponding authorized borrowing limits for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are described in the following tables:
 
The maximum and minimum interest rates for funds either borrowed from or loaned to the Utility Money Pool were as follows:
 
The average interest rates for funds borrowed from and loaned to the Utility Money Pool for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized for all Registrant Subsidiaries in the following table:
Interest expense related to the Utility Money Pool is included in Interest Expense in each of the Registrant Subsidiaries Financial Statements.  The Registrant Subsidiaries incurred interest expense for amounts borrowed from the Utility Money Pool as follows:
 
Interest income related to the Utility Money Pool is included in Interest Income on each of the Registrant Subsidiaries Financial Statements.  The Registrant Subsidiaries earned interest income for amounts advanced to the Utility Money Pool as follows:
 
Short-term Debt
The Registrant Subsidiaries outstanding short-term debt was as follows:
Credit Facilities
In April 2008, the Registrant Subsidiaries and certain other companies in the AEP System entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  Under the facilities, letters of credit may be issued.  As of December 31, 2008, $372 million of letters of credit were issued by Registrant Subsidiaries under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate Pollution Control Bonds as follows:
Sale of Receivables  AEP Credit
AEP Credit has a sale of receivables agreement with banks and commercial paper conduits.  Under the sale of receivables agreement, AEP Credit sells an interest in the receivables it acquires from affiliated utility subsidiaries to the commercial paper conduits and banks and receives cash.  This transaction constitutes a sale of receivables in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, allowing the receivables to be taken off of AEP Credits balance sheet and allowing AEP Credit to repay any debt obligations.  AEP has no ownership interest in the commercial paper conduits and is not required to consolidate these entities in accordance with GAAP.  AEP Credit continues to service the receivables.  This off-balance sheet transaction was entered into to allow AEP Credit to repay its outstanding debt obligations, continue to purchase the AEP operating companies receivables, and accelerate AEP Credits cash collections.
In October 2008, AEP renewed AEP Credits sale of receivables agreement.  The sale of receivables agreement provides a commitment of $700 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  This agreement will expire in October 2009.  AEP intends to extend or replace the sale of receivables agreement.  The previous sale of receivables agreement, which expired in October 2008 and was extended until October 2009, provided a commitment of $650 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  Under the previous sale of receivable agreement, the commitment increased to $700 million for the months of August and September to accommodate seasonal demand.  At December 31, 2008, $650 million of commitments to purchase accounts receivable were outstanding under the receivables agreement.  AEP Credit maintains a retained interest in the receivables sold and this interest is pledged as collateral for the collection of receivables sold.  The fair value of the retained interest is based on book value due to the short-term nature of the accounts receivable less an allowance for anticipated uncollectible accounts.
AEP Credit purchases accounts receivable through purchase agreements with CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and a portion of APCo.  Since APCo does not have regulatory authority to sell accounts receivable in all of its regulatory jurisdictions, only a portion of APCos accounts receivable are sold to AEP Credit.
Comparative accounts receivable information for AEP Credit is as follows:
Historical loss and delinquency amounts for the AEP Systems customer accounts receivable managed portfolio is as follows:
 
Customer accounts receivable retained and securitized for the electric operating companies are managed by AEP Credit.  Miscellaneous accounts receivable have been fully retained and not securitized.
Delinquent customer accounts receivable for the electric utility affiliates that AEP Credit currently factors were $22 million and $30 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  AEP Credits delinquent customer accounts receivable represents accounts greater than 30 days past due.
Under the factoring arrangement, participating Registrant Subsidiaries sell, without recourse, certain of their customer accounts receivable and accrued unbilled revenue balances to AEP Credit and are charged a fee based on AEP Credit financing costs, uncollectible accounts experience for each companys receivables and administrative costs.  The costs of factoring customer accounts receivable are reported in Other Operation of the participants statement of operations.
The amount of factored accounts receivable and accrued unbilled revenues for each Registrant Subsidiary was as follows:
 
The fees paid by the Registrant Subsidiaries to AEP Credit for factoring customer accounts receivable were:
15.    
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
For other related party transactions, also see Utility Money Pool  AEP System and Sale of Receivables  AEP Credit sections of Note 14.
AEP Power Pool
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo are parties to the Interconnection Agreement, dated July 6, 1951, as amended (the Interconnection Agreement), defining how they share the costs and benefits associated with their generating plants.  This sharing is based upon each companys MLR, which is calculated monthly on the basis of each companys maximum peak demand in relation to the sum of the maximum peak demands of all five companies during the preceding 12 months.  In addition, since 1995, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo have been parties to the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement, which provides, among other things, for the transfer of SO allowances associated with the transactions under the Interconnection Agreement.
2
Power, gas and risk management activities are conducted by AEPSC and profits/losses are allocated under the SIA to AEP Power Pool members, PSO and SWEPCo.  Risk management activities involve the purchase and sale of electricity and gas under physical forward contracts at fixed and variable prices.  In addition, the risk management of electricity, and to a lesser extent gas contracts, includes exchange traded futures and options and OTC options and swaps.  The majority of these transactions represent physical forward contracts in the AEP Systems traditional marketing area and are typically settled by entering into offsetting contracts.  In addition, AEPSC enters into transactions for the purchase and sale of electricity and gas options, futures and swaps, and for the forward purchase and sale of electricity outside of the AEP Systems traditional marketing area.
CSW Operating Agreement
PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to a Restated and Amended Operating Agreement originally dated as of January 1, 1997 (CSW Operating Agreement), which was approved by the FERC.  In February 2006, AEP filed with the FERC a proposed amendment to the CSW Operating Agreement to remove TCC and TNC as parties to the agreement.  Pursuant to Texas electric restructuring law, those companies exited the generation and load-servicing businesses.  AEP made a similar filing to remove those two companies as parties to the SIA.  The filings were approved effective May 1, 2006 and April 1, 2006, respectively.
The CSW Operating Agreement requires PSO and SWEPCo to maintain adequate annual planning reserve margins and requires that capacity in excess of the required margins be made available for sale to other operating companies as capacity commitments.  Parties are compensated for energy delivered to recipients based upon the deliverers incremental cost plus a portion of the recipients savings realized by the purchaser that avoids the use of more costly alternatives.  Revenues and costs arising from third party sales are generally shared based on the amount of energy PSO or SWEPCo contributes that is sold to third parties.
System Integration Agreement (SIA)
The SIA provides for the integration and coordination of AEP East companies and AEP West companies zones.  This includes joint dispatch of generation within the AEP System, and the distribution, between the two zones, of costs and benefits associated with the transfers of power between the two zones (including sales to third parties and risk management and trading activities).  It is designed to function as an umbrella agreement in addition to the Interconnection Agreement and the CSW Operating Agreement, each of which controls the distribution of costs and benefits within a zone.
In November 2005, AEP filed with the FERC a proposed amendment to the SIA to change the method of allocating profits from off-system electricity sales between the East and West zones.  The proposed method causes such profits to be allocated generally on the basis of the zone in which the underlying transactions occur or originate.  The filing was made in accordance with a provision of the agreement that called for a re-evaluation of the allocation method effective January 1, 2006 and was approved as filed effective April 1, 2006.
Power generated, allocated or provided under the Interconnection Agreement or CSW Operating Agreement to any Registrant Subsidiary is primarily sold to customers by such Registrant Subsidiary at rates approved (other than in Ohio) by the public utility commission in the jurisdiction of sale.  In Ohio, such rates are based on a statutory formula as those jurisdictions transition to the use of market rates for generation (see Note 4).
Under both the Interconnection Agreement and CSW Operating Agreement, power generated that is not needed to serve the native load of any Registrant Subsidiary is sold in the wholesale market by AEPSC on behalf of the generating subsidiary.
Affiliated Revenues and Purchases
The following table shows the revenues derived from sales to the pools, direct sales to affiliates, natural gas contracts with AEPES, and other revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
 
The following table shows the purchased power expense incurred from purchases from the pools and affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
 
The above summarized related party revenues and expenses are reported as consolidated and are presented as Sales to AEP Affiliates and Purchased Electricity from AEP Affiliates on the income statements of each AEP Power Pool member.  Since all of the above pool members are included in AEPs consolidated results, the above summarized related party transactions are eliminated in total in AEPs consolidated revenues and expenses.
AEP System Transmission Pool
AEPs System Transmission Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of the planning, operation and maintenance of the transmission facilities of AEP East companies and AEP West companies zones.  Similar to the SIA, the System Transmission Integration Agreement functions as an umbrella agreement in addition to the Transmission Equalization Agreement (TEA) and the Transmission Coordination Agreement (TCA).  The System Transmission Integration Agreement contains two service schedules that govern:
The Transmission Integration Agreement anticipates that additional service schedules may be added as circumstances warrant.
APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo are parties to the TEA, dated April 1, 1984, as amended, defining how they share the costs associated with their relative ownership of the extra-high-voltage transmission system (facilities rated 345 kV and above) and certain facilities operated at lower voltages (138 kV and above).  Like the Interconnection Agreement, this sharing is based upon each companys MLR.
The following table shows the net charges (credits) allocated among the Registrant Subsidiaries, party to the TEA, during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
The net charges (credits) shown above are recorded in Other Operation on the respective income statements.
PSO, SWEPCo, TCC, TNC and AEPSC are parties to the TCA, originally dated January 1, 1997.  The TCA has been approved by the FERC and establishes a coordinating committee, which is charged with overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the AEP West companies, including the performance of transmission planning studies, the interaction of such companies with independent system operators (ISO) and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and compliance with the terms of the OATT filed with the FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such tariff.
Under the TCA, the AEP West companies delegated to AEPSC the responsibility of monitoring the reliability of their transmission systems and administering the OATT on their behalf.  The allocations have been governed by the FERC-approved OATT for the SPP (with respect to PSO and SWEPCo).
The following table shows the net charges (credits) allocated among parties to the TCA pursuant to the SPP OATT protocols as described above during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
The net charges (credits) shown above are recorded in the Other Operation on PSOs and SWEPCos respective income statements.
 
Assignment from SWEPCo, TCC and TNC to AEPEP
On March 1, 2008, SWEPCo, TCC and TNC assigned a 20-year Purchase Power Agreement (PPA) to AEPEP.  In addition to the PPA assignment, an intercompany agreement was executed between AEPEP and SWEPCo to provide SWEPCo with future margins related to its share.  The PPA and intercompany agreements are effective through 2019.  SWEPCo recorded revenue of $903 thousand from AEPEP in Sales to AEP Affiliates on its 2008 Consolidated Statement of Income.
ERCOT Contracts Transferred to AEPEP
Effective January 1, 2007, PSO and SWEPCo transferred certain existing ERCOT energy marketing contracts to AEPEP and entered into intercompany financial and physical purchase and sale agreements with AEPEP.  This was done to lock in PSO and SWEPCos margins on ERCOT trading and marketing contracts and to transfer the future associated commodity price and credit risk to AEPEP.  The contracts will mature in December 2009.
PSO and SWEPCo have historically presented third party ERCOT trading and marketing activity on a net basis in Revenues - Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution.  The applicable ERCOT third party trading and marketing contracts that were not transferred to AEPEP will remain until maturity on PSOs and SWEPCos balance sheets and will be presented on a net basis in Sales to AEP Affiliates on PSOs and SWEPCos respective income statements.
The following tables indicate the sales to AEPEP and the amounts reclassified from third party to affiliate:
The following table indicates the affiliated portion of risk management assets and liabilities reflected on PSOs and SWEPCos respective balance sheets associated with these contracts:
SPP Customers and Assets Transferred from TNC to SWEPCo
SWEPCos and approximately 3% of TNCs businesses were in SPP.  A petition was filed in May 2006 requesting approval to transfer Mutual Energy SWEPCo L.P.s (a subsidiary of AEP C&I Company, LLC) customers and TNCs facilities and certificated service territory located in the SPP area to SWEPCo.  In January 2007, the final regulatory approval was received for the transfers.  The transfers were effective February 2007 and were recorded at net book value of $12 million.
Equipment Transferred from AEP Pro Serv, Inc. to SWEPCo
During the fourth quarter of 2008, AEP Pro Serv, Inc. transferred $37 million of refurbished turbines and related equipment to SWEPCo for installation at its Stall Unit at its Arsenal Hill Plant.  SWEPCo recorded the transfer in CWIP on its 2008 Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Natural Gas Contracts with DETM
Effective October 31, 2003, AEPES assigned to AEPSC, as agent for the AEP East companies, approximately $97 million (negative value) associated with its natural gas contracts with DETM.  The assignment was executed in order to consolidate DETM positions within AEP.  Beginning in 2007, PSO and SWEPCo were allocated a portion of the DETM assignment based on the SIA methodology of sharing trading and marketing margins between the AEP East companies and PSO and SWEPCo.  Concurrently, in order to ensure that there would be no financial impact to the AEP East companies, PSO or SWEPCo as a result of the assignment, AEPES and AEPSC entered into agreements requiring AEPES to reimburse AEPSC for any related cash settlements and all income related to the assigned contracts.  The following table represents the Registrant Subsidiaries risk management liabilities related to DETM at December 31:
Fuel Agreement between OPCo and AEPES
OPCo and National Power Cooperative, Inc (NPC) have an agreement whereby OPCo operates a 500 MW gas plant owned by NPC (Mone Plant).  AEPES entered into a fuel management agreement with those two parties to manage and procure fuel for the Mone Plant.  The gas purchased by AEPES and used in generation is first sold to OPCo then allocated to the AEP East companies, who have an agreement to purchase 100% of the available generating capacity from the plant through May 2012.  The related purchases of gas managed by AEPES were as follows:
These purchases are reflected in Purchased Electricity for Resale on the respective income statements.
Unit Power Agreements (UPA)
Lawrenceburg UPA between CSPCo and AEGCo
In March 2007, CSPCo and AEGCo entered into a 10-year UPA for the entire output from the Lawrenceburg Generating Station effective with AEGCos purchase of the plant in May 2007.  The UPA has an option for an additional 2-year period.  I&M operates the plant under an agreement with AEGCo.  Under the UPA, CSPCo pays AEGCo for the capacity, depreciation, fuel, operation and maintenance and tax expenses.  These payments are due regardless of whether the plant is operating.  The fuel and operation and maintenance payments are based on actual costs incurred.  All expenses are trued up periodically.
I&M UPA between AEGCo and I&M
A unit power agreement between AEGCo and I&M (the I&M Power Agreement) provides for the sale by AEGCo to I&M of all the power (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the Rockport Plant unless it is sold to another utility.  I&M is obligated, whether or not power is available from AEGCo, to pay as a demand charge for the right to receive such power (and as an energy charge for any associated energy taken by I&M) net of amounts received by AEGCo from any other sources, sufficient to enable AEGCo to pay all its operating and other expenses, including a rate of return on the common equity of AEGCo as approved by the FERC.  The I&M Power Agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of the lease term of Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant unless extended in specified circumstances.
KPCo UPA between AEGCo and KPCo
Pursuant to an assignment between I&M and KPCo, and a unit power agreement between KPCo and AEGCo, AEGCo sells KPCo 30% of the power (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo from both units of the Rockport Plant.  KPCo has agreed to pay to AEGCo in consideration for the right to receive such power the same amounts which I&M would have paid AEGCo under the terms of the I&M Power Agreement for such entitlement.  The KPCo unit power agreement ends in December 2022.  See Affiliated Revenues and Purchases section of this note.
Jointly-Owned Electric Utility Plants
APCo and OPCo jointly own the Amos Plant and the Sporn Plant.  The costs of operating these facilities are apportioned between owners based on ownership interests.  Each companys share of these costs is included in the appropriate expense accounts on its respective Consolidated Statements of Income.  Each companys investment in these plants is included in Property, Plant and Equipment on its respective Consolidated Balance Sheets.
AEGCo and I&M jointly own one generating unit and jointly lease the other generating unit of the Rockport Plant.  The costs of operating this facility are equally apportioned between AEGCo and I&M since each company has a 50% interest.  Each companys share of costs is included in the appropriate expense accounts on its respective income statements.  Each companys investment in these plants is included in Property, Plant and Equipment on its respective balance sheets.
PSO and TNC jointly own the Oklaunion Plant along with two nonaffiliated companies.  TCC sold its share to one of the nonaffiliated companies in February 2007.  The costs of operating the facility are apportioned between owners based on ownership interests.  Each companys share of these costs is included in the appropriate expense accounts on its respective income statements.  PSOs and TNCs investment in this plant is included in Property, Plant and Equipment on its respective balance sheets.
Cook Coal Terminal
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Cook Coal Terminal, a division of OPCo, performed coal transloading services at cost for APCo and I&M.  OPCo included revenues for these services in Other-Affiliated and expenses in Other Operation on its Consolidated Statements of Income.  The coal transloading revenues were as follows:
APCo and I&M recorded the cost of the transloading services in Fuel on their respective Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In addition, Cook Coal Terminal provided coal transloading services for OVEC in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  OPCo recorded revenue as Other  Nonaffiliated on its Consolidated Statements of Income in the amounts of $59 thousand, $290 thousand and $172 thousand in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  OVEC is 43.47% owned by AEP (includes CSPCos 4.3% ownership of OVEC).
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Cook Coal Terminal also performed railcar maintenance services at cost for APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo.  OPCo includes revenues for these services in Sales to AEP Affiliates and expenses in Other Operation on its Consolidated Statements of Income.  The railcar maintenance revenues were as follows:
APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo record the cost of the railcar maintenance services in Fuel on their respective balance sheets.
SWEPCo Railcar Facility
SWEPCo operates a railcar maintenance facility in Alliance, Nebraska.  The facility performs maintenance on its own railcars as well as railcars belonging to I&M, PSO and third parties.  SWEPCo billed I&M $2.5 million and $2.2 million for railcar services provided in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and billed PSO $553 thousand and $755 thousand in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  These billings, for SWEPCo, and costs, for I&M and PSO, are recorded in Fuel on the respective balance sheets.
I&M Barging, Urea Transloading and Other Services
I&M provides barging, urea transloading and other transportation services to affiliates.  Urea is a chemical used to control NO emissions at certain generation plants in the AEP System.  I&M records revenues from barging, transloading and other services as Other  Affiliated on its Consolidated Statements of Income.  The affiliated companies record these costs paid to I&M as fuel expense or operation expense.  The amount of affiliated revenues and affiliated expenses were:
x
In addition, I&M provided transloading services to OVEC.  I&M recorded revenue of $3 thousand, $89 thousand and $121 thousand for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, in Other  Nonaffiliated on its Consolidated Statements of Income.
Services Provided by AEP River Operations LLC (formerly known as MEMCO)
AEP River Operations LLC provides services for barge towing, chartering and general and administrative expenses to I&M.  The costs are recorded by I&M as Other Operation expense.  For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, I&M recorded expenses of $37 million, $18 million and $16 million, respectively, for these activities.
Central Machine Shop
APCo operates a facility which repairs and rebuilds specialized components for the generation plants across the AEP System.  APCo defers on its balance sheet the cost of performing the services, then transfers the cost to the affiliate for reimbursement.  The AEP subsidiaries recorded these billings as capital or maintenance expense depending on the nature of the services received.  These billings are recoverable from customers.  The following table provides the amounts billed by APCo to the following affiliates:
In addition, APCo billed OVEC and IKEC a total of $303 thousand, $898 thousand and $951 thousand for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Affiliate Railcar Agreement
Certain AEP subsidiaries have an agreement providing for the use of each others leased or owned railcars when available.  The agreement specifies that the company using the railcar will be billed, at cost, by the company furnishing the railcar.  The AEP subsidiaries record these costs or reimbursements as costs or reduction of costs, respectively, in Fuel on their balance sheets and such costs are recoverable from customers.  The following tables show the net effect of the railcar agreement on the AEP subsidiaries respective balance sheets:
OPCo Indemnification Agreement with AEP Resources
OPCo had an indemnification agreement with AEP Resources, Inc. (AEPR), a nonutility subsidiary of AEP, whereby AEPR held OPCo harmless from market exposure related to OPCos Power Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 15, 2000 with Dow Chemical Company.  In 2006, AEPR paid OPCo $14.9 million which is reported in OPCos Other Operation on its Consolidated Statement of Income.  As a result of the sale of the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility and subsequent termination of OPCos Power Purchase and Sale Agreement in November 2006,  there were no indemnification payments in 2008 or 2007.
Purchased Power from OVEC
The amounts of power purchased by the Registrant Subsidiaries from OVEC, which is 43.47% owned by AEP (includes CSPCos 4.3% ownership of OVEC), for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were:
The amounts shown above are recoverable from customers and are included in Purchased Electricity for Resale on the respective income statements.
AEP Power Pool Purchases from OVEC
Beginning in 2006, the AEP Power Pool began purchasing power from OVEC as part of wholesale marketing and risk management activity.  These purchases are reflected in Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution revenues on the respective income statements.  The agreement expired in May 2008 and subsequently ended in December 2008.  The following table shows the amounts recorded for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
Purchased Power from Sweeny
On behalf of the AEP West companies, CSPCo entered into a ten-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Sweeny, which was 50% owned by AEP.  The PPA was for unit contingent power up to a maximum of 315 MW from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2014.  The delivery point for the power under the PPA was in TCCs system.  The power was sold in ERCOT.  Prior to May 1, 2006, the purchase of Sweeny power and its sale to nonaffiliates was shared among the AEP West companies under the CSW Operating Agreement.  After May 1, 2006, the purchases and sales were shared between PSO and SWEPCo.  See CSW Operating Agreement section of this note.  In April 2007, AEP Energy Partners (AEPEP) was assigned the Sweeny PPA from CSPCo and became responsible for purchasing the Sweeny power instead of PSO and SWEPCo.  In October 2007, AEP sold its 50% interest in the Sweeny facility along with the ten year PPA to Conoco Phillips.  The purchases from Sweeny were:
The amounts shown above are recorded in Purchased Electricity for Resale on PSOs and SWEPCos respective income statements.
Sales and Purchases of Property
Certain AEP subsidiaries had affiliated sales and purchases of electric property individually amounting to $100 thousand or more for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as shown in the following table:
In addition, certain AEP subsidiaries had aggregate affiliated sales and purchases of meters and transformers for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as shown in the following table:
Year Ended December 31, 2008
Year Ended December 31, 2007
Year Ended December 31, 2006
The amounts above are recorded in Property, Plant and Equipment.  Transfers are performed at cost.
Global Borrowing Notes
AEP issued long-term debt, portions of which were loaned to the Registrant Subsidiaries.  The debt is reflected in Long-term Debt  Affiliated on the Registrant Subsidiaries respective balance sheets.  AEP pays the interest on the global notes, but the Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest for their respective share of the global borrowing and remit the interest to AEP.  The accrued interest is reflected in either Accrued Interest or Other in the Current Liabilities section of the Registrant Subsidiaries respective balance sheets.  APCo, CSPCo, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo participated in the global borrowing arrangement during the reporting periods.
Intercompany Billings
The Registrant Subsidiaries and other AEP subsidiaries perform certain utility services for each other when necessary or practical.  The costs of these services are billed on a direct-charge basis, whenever possible, or on reasonable bases of proration for services that benefit multiple companies.  The billings for services are made at cost and include no compensation for the use of equity capital.  Billings between affiliated subsidiaries are capitalized or expensed depending on the nature of the services rendered.
Variable Interest Entities
FIN 46R is a consolidation model that considers risk absorption of a variable interest entity (VIE), also referred to as variability.  Entities are required to consolidate a VIE when it is determined that they are the primary beneficiary of that VIE, as defined by FIN 46R.  In determining whether they are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, each Registrant Subsidiary considers factors such as equity at risk, the amount of variability of the VIE the Registrant Subsidiary absorbs, guarantees of indebtedness, voting rights including kick-out rights, the power to direct the VIE and other factors.  Management believes that significant assumptions and judgments were applied consistently and that there are no other reasonable judgments or assumptions that would result in a different conclusion.  In addition, the Registrant Subsidiaries have not provided financial or other support that was not previously contractually required to any VIE.
SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary of Sabine and DHLC.  OPCo is the primary beneficiary of JMG.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo each hold a significant variable interest in AEPSC.  I&M and CSPCo each hold a significant variable interest in AEGCo.
Sabine is a mining operator providing mining services to SWEPCo.  SWEPCo has no equity investment in Sabine but is Sabines only customer.  SWEPCo guarantees the debt obligations and lease obligations of Sabine.  Under the terms of the note agreements, substantially all assets are pledged and all rights under the lignite mining agreement are assigned to SWEPCo.  The creditors of Sabine have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  Under the provisions of the mining agreement, SWEPCo is required to pay, as a part of the cost of lignite delivered, an amount equal to mining costs plus a management fee which is included in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation on SWEPCos Consolidated Statements of Income.  Based on these facts, management has concluded that SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate Sabine.  SWEPCos total billings from Sabine for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $110 million and $95 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of Sabines assets and liabilities on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets.
DHLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SWEPCo.  DHLC is a mining operator who sells 50% of the lignite produced to SWEPCo and 50% to Cleco Corporation, a nonaffiliated company.  SWEPCo and Cleco Corporation share half of the executive board seats, with equal voting rights and each entity guarantees a 50% share of DHLCs debt.  The creditors of DHLC have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  Based on the structure and equity ownership, management has concluded that SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate DHLC.  SWEPCos total billings from DHLC for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $44 million and $35 million, respectively.  These billings are included in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation on SWEPCos Consolidated Statements of Income.  See the tables below for the classification of DHLC assets and liabilities on SWEPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The balances below represent the assets and liabilities of the VIEs that are consolidated.  These balances include intercompany transactions that would be eliminated upon consolidation.
OPCo has a lease agreement with JMG to finance OPCos FGD system installed on OPCos Gavin Plant.  The PUCO approved the original lease agreement between OPCo and JMG.  JMG has a capital structure of substantially all debt from pollution control bonds and other debt.  JMG owns and leases the FGD to OPCo.  JMG is considered a single-lessee leasing arrangement with only one asset.  OPCos lease payments are the only form of repayment associated with JMGs debt obligations even though OPCo does not guarantee JMGs debt.  The creditors of JMG have no recourse to any AEP entity other than OPCo for the lease payment.  OPCo does not have any ownership interest in JMG.  Based on the structure of the entity, management has concluded that OPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate JMG.  OPCos total billings from JMG for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $57 million and $46 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of JMGs assets and liabilities on OPCos Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The balances below represent the assets and liabilities of the VIE that are consolidated.  These balances include intercompany transactions that would be eliminated upon consolidation.
AEPSC provides certain managerial and professional services to AEPs subsidiaries.  AEP is the sole equity owner of AEPSC.  The costs of the services are based on a direct charge or on a prorated basis and billed to the AEP subsidiary companies at AEPSCs cost.  No AEP subsidiary has provided financial or other support outside of the reimbursement of costs for services rendered.  AEPSC finances its operations by cost reimbursement from other AEP subsidiaries.  There are no other terms or arrangements between AEPSC and any of the AEP subsidiaries that could require additional financial support from an AEP subsidiary or expose them to losses outside of the normal course of business.  AEPSC and its billings are subject to regulation by the FERC.  AEPs subsidiaries are exposed to losses to the extent they cannot recover the costs of AEPSC through their normal business operations.  All Registrant Subsidiaries are considered to have a significant interest in the variability in AEPSC due to their activity in AEPSCs cost reimbursement structure.  AEPSC is consolidated by AEP.  In the event AEPSC would require financing or other support outside the cost reimbursement billings, this financing would be provided by AEP.
Total AEPSC billings to the Registrant Subsidiaries were as follows:
The carrying amount and classification of variable interest in AEPSCs accounts payable as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
AEGCo, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP, is consolidated by AEP.  AEGCo owns a 50% ownership interest in Rockport Plant Unit 1, leases a 50% interest in Rockport Plant Unit 2 and owns 100% of the Lawrenceburg Generating Station.  AEGCo sells all the output from the Rockport Plant to I&M and KPCo.  In May 2007, AEGCo began leasing the Lawrenceburg Generating Station to CSPCo.  AEP guarantees all the debt obligations of AEGCo.  I&M and CSPCo are considered to have a significant interest in AEGCo due to these transactions.  I&M and CSPCo are exposed to losses to the extent they cannot recover the costs of AEGCo through their normal business operations.  Due to the nature of the AEP Power Pool, there is a sharing of the cost of Rockport and Lawrenceburg Plants such that no member of the AEP Power Pool is the primary beneficiary of AEGCos Rockport or Lawrenceburg Plants.  In the event AEGCo would require financing or other support outside the billings to I&M, CSPCo and KPCo, this financing would be provided by AEP.  See Rockport Lease section of Note 13 for additional information regarding AEGCos lease.
Total billings from AEGCo are as follows:
The carrying amount and classification of variable interest in AEGCos accounts payable as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
The Registrant Subsidiaries provide for depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment, excluding coal-mining properties, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of property, generally using composite rates by functional class.  The following table provides the annual composite depreciation rates by functional class generally used by the Registrant Subsidiaries:
APCo
N.M. = Not Meaningful
 
CSPCo
N.M. = Not Meaningful
 
OPCo
N.M. = Not Meaningful
 
SWEPCo
N.M. = Not Meaningful
   N.M. = Not Meaningful
   N.M. = Not Meaningful
The Registrant Subsidiaries provide for depreciation, depletion and amortization of coal-mining assets over each asset's estimated useful life or the estimated life of each mine, whichever is shorter, using the straight-line method for mining structures and equipment.  The Registrant Subsidiaries use either the straight-line method or the units-of-production method to amortize mine development costs and deplete coal rights based on estimated recoverable tonnages.  The Registrant Subsidiaries include these costs in the cost of coal charged to fuel expense.  The average amortization rate for coal rights and mine development costs related to SWEPCo was $0.26 per ton in 2008 and $0.66 per ton in 2007 and 2006.
For cost-based rate-regulated operations, the composite depreciation rate generally includes a component for nonasset retirement obligation (non-ARO) removal costs, which is credited to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization.  Actual removal costs incurred are charged to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization.  Any excess of accrued non-ARO removal costs over actual removal costs incurred is reclassified from Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization and reflected as a regulatory liability.  For nonregulated operations, non-ARO removal costs are expensed as incurred.
Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)
The Registrant Subsidiaries record ARO in accordance with SFAS 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations and FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations for the retirement of certain ash ponds and coal mining facilities as well as asbestos removal.  I&M records ARO for the decommissioning of the Cook Plant.  The Registrant Subsidiaries have identified, but not recognized, ARO liabilities related to electric transmission and distribution assets, as a result of certain easements on property on which assets are owned.  Generally, such easements are perpetual and require only the retirement and removal of assets upon the cessation of the propertys use.  The retirement obligation is not estimable for such easements since the Registrant Subsidiaries plan to use their facilities indefinitely.  The retirement obligation would only be recognized if and when the Registrant Subsidiaries abandon or cease the use of specific easements, which is not expected.
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, I&Ms ARO liability for nuclear decommissioning of the Cook Plant was $891 million and $846 million, respectively.  These liabilities are reflected in Asset Retirement Obligations on I&Ms Consolidated Balance Sheets.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of I&Ms assets that are legally restricted for purposes of settling decommissioning liabilities totaled $959 million and $1.1 billion, respectively.  These assets are included in Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on I&Ms Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following is a reconciliation of the 2008 and 2007 aggregate carrying amounts of ARO by Registrant Subsidiary:
 
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalization
The amounts of AFUDC included in Allowance For Equity Funds Used During Construction on the Registrant Subsidiaries income statements for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
The amounts of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction or interest capitalized included in Interest Expense on the Registrant Subsidiaries income statements for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Jointly-owned Electric Utility Plants
CSPCo, PSO and SWEPCo have generating units that are jointly-owned with affiliated and nonaffiliated companies. Each of the participating companies is obligated to pay its share of the costs of any such jointly-owned facilities in the same proportion as its ownership interest.  Each Registrant Subsidiarys proportionate share of the operating costs associated with such facilities is included in its statements of operations and the investments and accumulated depreciation are reflected in its balance sheets under Property, Plant and Equipment as follows:
 
In managements opinion, the unaudited quarterly information reflects all normal and recurring accruals and adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the results of operations for interim periods.  Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of a full years operations because of various factors.  The unaudited quarterly financial information for each Registrant Subsidiary is as follows:
 
 
 
The following is a combined presentation of certain components of the Registrant Subsidiaries managements discussion and analysis.  The information in this section completes the information necessary for managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and net income and is meant to be read with (i) Managements Financial Discussion and Analysis, (ii) financial statements, (iii) footnotes and (iv) the schedules of each individual registrant.
OUTLOOK FOR 2009
Market Impacts
In 2008, the domestic and world economies experienced significant slowdowns.  Concurrently, the financial markets have become increasingly unstable and constrained at both a global and domestic level.  This systemic marketplace distress is impacting the Registrant Subsidiaries access to capital, liquidity and cost of capital.  The uncertainties in the capital markets could have significant implications since the Registrant Subsidiaries rely on continuing access to capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.
The current credit markets are constraining the Registrant Subsidiaries ability to issue new debt and refinance existing debt.  APCo, OPCo and PSO have $150 million, $78 million and $50 million, respectively, maturing in 2009.  Management intends to refinance these maturities.  To support operations, AEP has $3.9 billion in aggregate credit facility commitments.  These commitments include 27 different banks with no one bank having more than 10% of the total bank commitments.  Short-term funding for the Registrant Subsidiaries comes from AEPs credit facilities which support the Utility Money Pool.  In 2008, AEP borrowed $2 billion under the credit facilities to enhance its position during this period of market disruptions.  This money can be loaned to the Registrant Subsidiaries through the Utility Money Pool.
Management cannot predict the length of time the current credit situation will continue or its impact on future operations and the Registrant Subsidiaries ability to issue debt at reasonable interest rates.  When market conditions improve, management plans to repay the amounts drawn under the credit facilities and issue commercial paper and long-term debt.  If there is not an improvement in access to capital, management believes that the Registrant Subsidiaries have adequate liquidity, through the Utility Money Pool and cash flows from their operations to support planned business operations and capital expenditures through 2009.
AEP has significant investments in several trust funds to provide for future payments of pensions and OPEB.  I&M has significant investments in several trust funds to provide for future payments of nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal.  Although all of the trust funds investments are well-diversified and managed in compliance with all laws and regulations, the value of the investments in these trusts declined substantially in 2008 due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are currently lower, this has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.
On behalf of the Registrant Subsidiaries, AEPSC enters into risk management contracts with numerous counterparties.  Since open risk management contracts are valued based on changes in market prices of the related commodities, exposures change daily. AEPs risk management organization monitors these exposures on a daily basis to limit the Registrant Subsidiaries economic and financial statement impact on a counterparty basis.
Economic Slowdown
Following the indications of a slowing economy in 2007, the U.S. economy experienced what some have labeled a financial crisis in 2008.  These economic troubles impacted and will continue to impact residential, commercial and industrial sales as well as sales opportunities in the wholesale market.  Most sections of the Registrant Subsidiaries service territories are experiencing slowdowns in new construction, resulting in residential and commercial customer base growing at a decreased rate.  Starting in the fourth quarter of 2008, various sections of the Registrant Subsidiaries service territories also experienced decreases in industrial sales due to temporary shutdowns and reduced shifts by some of the large industrial customers.  Management expects these trends to continue throughout 2009.
In February 2009, Century Aluminum, a major industrial customer (325 MW load) of APCo, announced the curtailment of operations at its Ravenswood, WV facility.
Budgeted Construction Expenditures
Budgeted construction expenditures for the Registrant Subsidiaries for 2009 are:
Budgeted construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital.
LIQUIDITY
Sources of Funding
Short-term funding for the Registrant Subsidiaries comes from AEPs commercial paper program and revolving credit facilities through the Utility Money Pool.  AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries also operate a money pool to minimize the AEP Systems external short-term funding requirements and sell accounts receivable to provide liquidity.  The credit facilities that support the Utility Money Pool were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $46 million following its bankruptcy.  In March 2008, these credit facilities were amended so that $750 million may be issued under each credit facility as letters of credit (LOC).  The Registrant Subsidiaries generally use short-term funding sources (the Utility Money Pool or receivables sales) to provide for interim financing of capital expenditures that exceed internally generated funds and periodically reduce their outstanding short-term debt through issuances of long-term debt, sale-leasebacks, leasing arrangements and additional capital contributions from AEP.
In April 2008, the Registrant Subsidiaries and certain other companies in the AEP System entered into a $650 million 3-year credit agreement and a $350 million 364-day credit agreement which were reduced by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s commitment amount of $23 million and $12 million, respectively, following its bankruptcy.  The Registrant Subsidiaries may issue LOCs under the credit facilities.  Each subsidiary has a borrowing/LOC limit under the credit facilities.  As of December 31, 2008, a total of $372 million of LOCs were issued under the 3-year credit agreement to support variable rate demand notes.  The following table shows each Registrant Subsidiaries borrowing/LOC limit under each credit facility and the outstanding amount of LOCs for the $650 million facility.
At December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding amounts under the $350 million facility.
Dividend Restrictions
Under the Federal Power Act, the Registrant Subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends out of stated capital.
Sale of Receivables Through AEP Credit
In 2008, AEP Credit renewed its sale of receivables agreement through October 2009.  The sale of receivables agreement provides a commitment of $700 million from banks and commercial paper conduits to purchase receivables from AEP Credit.  Management intends to extend or replace the sale of receivables agreement.  At December 31, 2008, $650 million of commitments to purchase accounts receivable were outstanding under the receivables agreement.  AEP Credit purchases accounts receivable from the Registrant Subsidiaries.
SIGNIFICANT FACTORS
Ohio Electric Security Plan Filings
In April 2008, the Ohio legislature passed Senate Bill 221, which amended the restructuring law effective July 31, 2008 and required electric utilities to adjust their rates by filing an Electric Security Plan (ESP).  Electric utilities could include a fuel cost recovery mechanism (FCR) in their ESP filing.  Electric utilities also had an option to file a Market Rate Offer (MRO) for generation pricing.  An MRO, from the date of its commencement, would have transitioned CSPCo and OPCo to full market rates no sooner than six years and no later than ten years after the PUCO approves an MRO.  The PUCO has the authority to approve and/or modify each utilitys ESP request.  The PUCO is required to approve an ESP if, in the aggregate, the ESP is more favorable to ratepayers than an MRO.  Both alternatives involve a significantly excessive earnings test (SEET) based on what public companies, including other utilities with similar risk profiles, earn on equity.
In July 2008, within the parameters of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to establish rates for 2009 through 2011.  CSPCo and OPCo did not file an optional MRO.  CSPCos and OPCos ESP filings requested an annual rate increase for 2009 through 2011 that would not exceed approximately 15% per year.  A significant portion of the requested ESP increases resulted from the implementation of a FCR that primarily includes fuel costs, purchased power costs, consumables such as urea, other variable production costs and gains and losses on sales of emission allowances.  The FCR is proposed to be phased into customer bills over the three-year period from 2009 through 2011 and recovered with a weighted average cost of capital carrying cost deferral over seven years from 2012 through 2018.  If the ESPs are approved as filed, effective with the implementation of the ESPs, CSPCo and OPCo will defer fuel cost over/under-recoveries and related carrying costs, including amounts unrecovered through the phase in period, for future recovery.
In addition to the FCR, the requested ESP increases would also recover incremental carrying costs associated with environmental costs, Provider of Last Resort (POLR) charges to compensate for the risk of customers changing electric suppliers, automatic increases for distribution reliability costs and for unexpected non-fuel generation costs.  The filings also include recovery for programs for smart metering initiatives, economic development, mandated energy efficiency, renewable resources and peak demand reduction programs.
Within the ESP requests, CSPCo and OPCo would also recover existing regulatory assets of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for customer choice implementation and line extension carrying costs incurred through December 2008.  In addition, CSPCo and OPCo would recover related unrecorded equity carrying costs of $31 million and $23 million, respectively, through December 2008.  The PUCO had previously issued orders allowing deferral of these costs.  Such costs would be recovered over an 8-year period beginning January 2011.  If the PUCO does not approve recovery of these regulatory assets in this or some future proceeding, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Hearings were held in November and December 2008.  Many intervenors filed opposing testimony.  CSPCo and OPCo requested retroactive application of the new rates, including the FCR, back to the start of the January 2009 billing cycle upon approval of the ESPs.  The RSP rates were effective for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 under which CSPCo and OPCo had three annual generation rate increases of 3% and 7%, respectively.  The RSP also allowed additional annual generation rate increases of up to an average of 4% per year to recover new governmentally-mandated costs.  In January 2009, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application requesting the PUCO to authorize deferred fuel accounting beginning January 1, 2009.  A motion to dismiss the application has been filed by Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, while the Ohio Consumers Counsel has filed comments opposing the application.  The PUCO ordered that CSPCo and OPCo continue using their current RSP rates until the PUCO issues a ruling on the ESPs or the end of the March 2009 billing cycle, whichever comes first.  Management is unable to predict the financial statement impact of the restructuring legislation until the PUCO acts on specific proposals made by CSPCo and OPCo in their ESPs.  CSPCo and OPCo anticipate a final order from the PUCO during the first quarter of 2009.
Cook Plant Unit 1 Fire and Shutdown
In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and are within the vendors warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  I&M is working with its insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), and its turbine vendor, Siemens, to evaluate the extent of the damage resulting from the incident and the costs to return the unit to service.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $330 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendors warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  Managements current analysis indicates that with successful repairs and timely parts deliveries, Unit 1 could resume operations as early as September 2009 at reduced power.  If the rotors cannot be repaired, replacement of parts will extend the outage into 2010.
I&M maintains property insurance through NEIL with a $1 million deductible.  I&M also maintains a separate accidental outage policy with NEIL whereby, after a 12-week deductible period, I&M is entitled to weekly payments of $3.5 million for the first 52 weeks following the deductible period.  After the initial 52 weeks of indemnity, the policy pays $2.8 million per week for up to an additional 110 weeks.  In January 2009, I&M filed to provide to customers a portion of the accidental outage insurance proceeds expected during the fuel cost forecast period of April through September 2009.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if the unit is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
New Generation
In 2008, AEP completed or is in various stages of construction of the following generation facilities:
Turk Plant
In November 2007, the APSC granted approval to build the Turk Plant.  Certain landowners filed a notice of appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals.  In March 2008, the LPSC approved the application to construct the Turk Plant.
In August 2008, the PUCT issued an order approving the Turk Plant with the following four conditions: (a) the capping of capital costs for the Turk Plant at the previously estimated $1.522 billion projected construction cost, excluding AFUDC, (b) capping CO emission costs at $28 per ton through the year 2030, (c) holding Texas ratepayers financially harmless from any adverse impact related to the Turk Plant not being fully subscribed to by other utilities or wholesale customers and (d) providing the PUCT all updates, studies, reviews, reports and analyses as previously required under the Louisiana and Arkansas orders.  In October 2008, SWEPCo appealed the PUCTs order regarding the two cost cap restrictions.  If the cost cap restrictions are upheld and construction or emissions costs exceed the restrictions, it could have a material adverse impact on future net income and cash flows.  In October 2008, an intervenor filed an appeal contending that the PUCTs grant of a conditional Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the Turk Plant was not necessary to serve retail customers.
2
A request to stop pre-construction activities at the site was filed in federal court by Arkansas landowners.  In July 2008, the federal court denied the request and the Arkansas landowners appealed the denial to the U.S. Court of Appeals.
In November 2008, SWEPCo received the air permit approval from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality and commenced construction.  In December 2008, Arkansas landowners filed an appeal with the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission (APCEC) which caused construction of the Turk Plant to halt until the APCEC took further action.  In December 2008, SWEPCo filed a request with the APCEC to continue construction of the Turk Plant and the APCEC ruled to allow construction to continue while an appeal of the Turk Plants permit is heard.  SWEPCo is also working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the approval of a wetlands and stream impact permit.
In January 2008 and July 2008, SWEPCo filed Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need (CECPN) applications with the APSC to construct transmission lines necessary for service from the Turk Plant.  Several landowners filed for intervention status and one landowner also contended he should be permitted to re-litigate Turk Plant issues, including the need for the generation.  The APSC granted their intervention but denied the request to re-litigate the Turk Plant issues.  In June 2008, the landowner filed an appeal to the Arkansas State Court of Appeals requesting to re-litigate Turk Plant issues.  SWEPCo responded and the appeal was dismissed.  In January 2009, the APSC approved the CECPN applications.
The Arkansas Governors Commission on Global Warming issued its final report to the Governor in October 2008.  The Commission was established to set a global warming pollution reduction goal together with a strategic plan for implementation in Arkansas.  The Commissions final report included a recommendation that the Turk Plant employ post combustion carbon capture and storage measures as soon as it starts operating.  If legislation is passed as a result of the findings in the Commissions report, it could impact SWEPCos proposal to build the Turk Plant.
If SWEPCo does not receive appropriate authorizations and permits to build the Turk Plant, SWEPCo could incur significant cancellation fees to terminate its commitments and would be responsible to reimburse OMPA, AECC and ETEC for their share of paid costs.  If that occurred, SWEPCo would seek recovery of its capitalized costs including any cancellation fees and joint owner reimbursements.  As of December 31, 2008, SWEPCo has capitalized approximately $510 million of expenditures (including AFUDC) and has significant contractual construction commitments for an additional $727 million.  As of December 31, 2008, if the plant had been cancelled, SWEPCo would have incurred cancellation fees of $61 million.  If the Turk Plant does not receive all necessary approvals on reasonable terms and SWEPCo cannot recover its capitalized costs, including any cancellation fees, it would have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
IGCC Plant
The construction of the West Virginia and Ohio IGCC plants are pending regulatory approvals.  In April 2008, the Virginia SCC issued an order denying APCos request to recover initial costs associated with a proposed IGCC plant in West Virginia.  In July 2008, the WVPSC issued a notice seeking comments from parties on how the WVPSC should proceed regarding its earlier approval of the IGCC plant.  Comments were filed by various parties, including APCo, but the WVPSC has not taken any action.  In July 2008, the IRS allocated $134 million in future tax credits to APCo for the planned IGCC plant contingent upon the commencement of construction, qualifying expenses being incurred and certification of the IGCC plant prior to July 2010.  Through December 31, 2008, APCo deferred for future recovery preconstruction IGCC costs of $20 million.  If the West Virginia IGCC plant is cancelled, APCo plans to seek recovery of its prudently incurred deferred pre-construction costs.  If the plant is cancelled and if the deferred costs are not recoverable, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
In Ohio, neither CSPCo nor OPCo are engaged in a continuous course of construction on the IGCC plant.  However, CSPCo and OPCo continue to pursue the ultimate construction of the IGCC plant.  In September 2008, the Ohio Consumers Counsel filed a motion with the PUCO requesting all Phase 1 cost recoveries be refunded to Ohio ratepayers with interest.  CSPCo and OPCo filed a response with the PUCO that argued the Ohio Consumers Counsels motion was without legal merit and contrary to past precedent.  If CSPCo and OPCo were required to refund some or all of the $24 million collected for IGCC pre-construction costs and those costs were not recoverable in another jurisdiction in connection with the construction of an IGCC plant, it would have an adverse effect on future net income and cash flows.
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans
AEP maintains qualified, defined benefit pension plans (Qualified Plans), which cover a substantial majority of nonunion and certain union employees, and unfunded, nonqualified supplemental plans to provide benefits in excess of amounts permitted under the provisions of the tax law to be paid to participants in the Qualified Plans (collectively the Pension Plans).  AEP merged the Qualified Plans at December 31, 2008.  Additionally, AEP entered into individual retirement agreements with certain current and retired executives that provide additional retirement benefits as a part of the nonqualified, supplemental plans.  AEP also sponsors other postretirement benefit plans to provide medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees (Postretirement Plans).  The Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans are collectively the Plans.
The following table shows the net periodic benefit cost and assumed rate of return on the Plans assets:
The net periodic benefit cost is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on the Plans assets.  In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption for 2009, AEP evaluated input from actuaries and investment consultants, including their reviews of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions.  AEP also considered historical returns of the investment markets as well as its ten-year average return, for the period ended December 2008, of approximately 3%.  AEP anticipates that the investment managers employed for the Plans will generate future returns averaging 8.00% for the Pension Plan and 7.75% for the Postretirement Plans.
The expected long-term rate of return on the Plans assets is based on AEPs targeted asset allocation and expected investment returns for each investment category.  The investment returns for the Postretirement Plans are assumed to be slightly less than those of the Pension Plans as a portion of the returns for the Postretirement Plans is taxable.  AEPs assumptions are summarized in the following table:
Global capital markets experienced extreme volatility in 2008.  The value of investments in AEPs pension and OPEB trusts declined substantially due to decreases in domestic and international equity markets.  Although the asset values are currently lower, this decline has not affected the funds ability to make their required payments.
AEP regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the investments to the targeted allocation.  AEP believes that 8% for the Pension Plans and 7.75% for the Postretirement Plans are reasonable long-term rate of return on the Plans assets despite the recent market volatility.  The Pension Plans assets had an actual (loss) gain of (24.1)% and 9.2% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Postretirement Plans assets had an actual (loss) gain of (24.7)% and 8.6% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Management will continue to evaluate the actuarial assumptions, including the expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust the assumptions as necessary.
AEP bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets.  Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded.  As of December 31, 2008, AEP had cumulative losses of approximately $1 billion that remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets.  These unrecognized net actuarial losses result in increases in the future pension costs depending on several factors, including whether such losses at each measurement date exceed the corridor in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions.
The method used to determine the discount rate that AEP utilizes for determining future obligations is a duration-based method in which a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds similar to those included in the Moodys Aa bond index was constructed but with a duration matching the benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio was used as the discount rate for the plan.  The discount rate at December 31, 2008 under this method was 6.00% for the Pension Plans and 6.10% for the Postretirement Plans.  Due to the effect of the unrecognized actuarial losses and based on an expected rate of return on the Pension Plans assets of  8.00%, a discount rate of 6.00% and various other assumptions, AEP estimates that the pension costs for all pension plans will approximate $92 million, $145 million and $152 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  Based on an expected rate of return on the OPEB plans assets of 7.75%, a discount rate of 6.10% and various other assumptions,  AEP estimates Postretirement Plan costs will approximate $148 million, $140 million and $121 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  Future actual cost will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Plans.  The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results.  The effects of a 50 basis point change to selective actuarial assumptions are included in Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits within the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this Combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Registrant Subsidiaries.
The value of AEPs Pension Plans assets decreased substantially to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008 from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2007 primarily due to investment losses.  The Qualified Plans paid $289 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008 (nonqualified plans paid $7 million in benefits).  The value of AEPs Postretirement Plans assets decreased substantially to $1 billion at December 31, 2008 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007 primarily due to investment losses.  The Postretirement Plans paid $120 million in benefits to plan participants during 2008.
Investments in trusts are stated at fair market value.  AEP utilizes the trustees external pricing service to measure the market value of the underlying investments.  AEPs investment managers review and validate the prices utilized to determine fair market value.  AEP also performs valuation testing to validate the market values of the actively traded securities.  AEP receives audit reports of the trustees operating controls and valuation processes.  Where possible, quoted prices on actively traded exchanges are used to determine value.  Debt holdings that are not actively traded may be valued based on the observable pricing of comparable securities.  Investments in commingled funds are generally not actively traded and are priced at a Net Asset Value (NAV) which is based on the underlying holdings of the funds.  These holdings are typically actively traded equities or debt securities that may be valued in a manner similar to direct debt investments.  Trust assets as of December 31, 2008 include approximately $244 million of real estate and private equity investments in the pension fund that are valued based on methods requiring judgment.
AEPs Qualified Plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2008.  No contribution to the Qualified Plans is required under ERISA in 2009.  Minimum contributions to the Qualified Plans of $365 million in 2010 and $258 million in 2011 are currently projected under ERISA and may vary significantly based on future market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors.  AEPs nonqualified pension plans are unfunded, and are therefore considered underfunded for accounting purposes.  For the nonqualified pension plans, the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded plan assets by $80 million and $77 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Certain pension plans AEP sponsors contain a cash balance benefit feature.  In 2008, the IRS issued Determination Letters confirming the tax exempt status of these plans including the cash balance benefit feature.
The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 did not materially impact the plans.
Litigation
Environmental Litigation
  The Federal EPA, a number of states and certain special interest groups filed complaints alleging that APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo modified certain units at their coal-fired generating plants in violation of the NSR requirements of the CAA.  In 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio approved the AEP Systems consent decree with the Federal EPA, the DOJ, the states and the special interest groups.  Under the consent decree, AEPs management agreed to annual SO and NO emission caps for sixteen coal-fired power plants located in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia.  AEPs management agreed to install FGD equipment at KPCos Big Sandy Plant and at OPCos Muskingum River Plant no later than the end of 2015.  AEGCo and I&M agreed to install SCR and FGD emissions control equipment on their jointly-owned Rockport Plant no later than the end of 2017 for Unit 1 and no later than the end of 2019 for Unit 2.  APCo agreed to install selective non-catalytic reduction, a NO-reduction technology, no later than the end of 2009 at Clinch River Plant.
New Source Review (NSR) Litigation:
2
x
x
CSPCo jointly-owns Beckjord and Stuart Stations with Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. and Dayton Power and Light Company.  A jury trial returned a verdict of no liability at the jointly-owned Beckjord unit.  In December 2008, however, the court ordered a new trial in the Beckjord case.  In October 2008, the court approved a settlement in a citizen suit action filed by Sierra Club against the jointly-owned units at Stuart Station.  Under the settlement, the joint-owners of Stuart Station agreed to certain emission targets related to NO, SO and PM.  The joint-owners also agreed to make energy efficiency and renewable energy commitments that are conditioned on PUCO approval for recovery of costs.  The joint-owners also agreed to forfeit 5,500 SO allowances and provide $300 thousand to a third party organization to establish a solar water heater rebate program.
x
2
2
Potential Uninsured Losses
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to meet potential losses and liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities relating to damage to the Cook Plant and costs of replacement power in the event of a nuclear incident at the Cook Plant.  Future losses or liabilities, which are not completely insured, unless recovered from customers, could have a material adverse effect on net income, cash flows and financial condition.
Environmental Matters
The Registrant Subsidiaries are implementing a substantial capital investment program and incurring additional operational costs to comply with new environmental control requirements.  The sources of these requirements include:
In addition, the Registrant Subsidiaries are engaged in litigation with respect to certain environmental matters, have been notified of potential responsibility for the clean-up of contaminated sites and incur costs for disposal of SNF and future decommissioning of I&Ms nuclear units.  Management also monitors possible future requirements to reduce COand other greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions to address concerns about global climate change.  All of these matters are discussed below.
2
Clean Air Act Requirements
The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nations air quality and control mobile and stationary sources of air emissions.  The major CAA programs affecting power plants are described below.  The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements.
  The CAA requires the Federal EPA to periodically review the available scientific data for six criteria pollutants and establish a concentration level in the ambient air for those substances that is adequate to protect the public health and welfare with an extra safety margin.  These concentration levels are known as national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).
National Ambient Air Quality Standards:
Each state identifies those areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (nonattainment areas).  Each state must develop a state implementation plan (SIP) to bring nonattainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and maintain good air quality in attainment areas.   All SIPs are submitted to the Federal EPA for approval.  If a state fails to develop adequate plans, the Federal EPA develops and implements a plan.  In addition, as the Federal EPA reviews the NAAQS, the attainment status of areas can change, and states may be required to develop new SIPs.  In 2008, the Federal EPA issued revised NAAQS for both ozone and PM . These new standards could increase the levels of SO and NO reductions required from the Registrant Subsidiaries facilities.  The Federal EPA also established a lower standard for lead, and conducts periodic reviews for additional criteria pollutants including SO and NO.
2.5
2
x
2
x
In 2005, the Federal EPA issued a final rule, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).  It requires specific reductions in SO and NO emissions from power plants and assists states developing new SIPs to meet the NAAQS.  CAIR reduces regional emissions of SO and NO (which can be transformed into PM and ozone) from power plants in the Eastern U.S. (29 states and the District of Columbia).  CAIR requires power plants within these states to reduce emissions of SO by 50% by 2010, and by 65% by 2015.  NO emissions will be subject to additional limits beginning in 2009, and will be reduced by a total of 70% from current levels by 2015.  Reductions of both SO and NO would be achieved through a cap-and-trade program.  In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision that would vacate CAIR and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA.  In September 2008, the Federal EPA and other parties petitioned for rehearing.  In December 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals granted the Federal EPAS petition and remanded the rule to the Federal EPA without vacatur, allowing CAIR to remain in effect while a new rulemaking is conducted.  Management is unable to predict how the Federal EPA will respond to the remand.  States were required to develop and submit SIPs to implement CAIR by November 2006.  Nearly all of the states in which the Registrant Subsidiaries power plants are located will be covered by CAIR and have or are developing CAIR SIPs.  Oklahoma is not affected, while Texas and Arkansas will be covered only by certain parts of CAIR.  A SIP that complies with CAIR will also establish compliance with other CAA requirements, including certain visibility goals.  The Federal EPA or the states may elect to seek further reductions of SO and NO in response to more stringent PM and ozone NAAQS.
2
x
2
x
2
x
2
x
2
x
  As a result of the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, the Federal EPA investigated hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions from the electric utility sector and submitted a report to Congress, identifying mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants as warranting further study.  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued a Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) setting mercury standards for new coal-fired power plants and requiring all states to issue new SIPs including mercury requirements for existing coal-fired power plants.  The Federal EPA issued a model federal rule based on a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions from existing coal-fired power plants that would reduce mercury emissions to 38 tons per year from all existing plants in 2010, and to 15 tons per year in 2018.  The national cap of 38 tons per year in 2010 is intended to reflect the level of reduction in mercury emissions that will be achieved as a result of installing controls to reduce SO and NO emissions in order to comply with CAIR.  States were required to develop and submit their SIPs to implement CAMR by November 2006.
Hazardous Air Pollutants:
2
x
Various states and special interest groups challenged the rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  The court ruled that the Federal EPAs action delisting fossil fuel-fired power plants did not conform to the procedures specified in the CAA, and vacated and remanded the federal rules for both new and existing coal-fired power plants to the Federal EPA.  The Federal EPA filed a petition for review by the U.S. Supreme Court, but the new Federal EPA Administrator asked that the petition be withdrawn.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this appeal or how the Federal EPA will respond to the remand.
  The 1990 Amendments to the CAA include a cap-and-trade emission reduction program for SO emissions from power plants.  By 2000, the program established a nationwide cap on power plant SO emissions of 8.9 million tons per year.  The 1990 Amendments also contained requirements for power plants to reduce NOx emissions through the use of available combustion controls.
The Acid Rain Program:
2
2
The success of the SO cap-and-trade program encouraged the Federal EPA and the states to use it as a model for other emission reduction programs, including CAIR and CAMR.  The Registrant Subsidiaries continue to meet their obligations under the Acid Rain Program through the installation of controls, use of alternate fuels and participation in the emissions allowance markets.  CAIR currently uses the SO allowances originally allocated through the Acid Rain Program as the basis for its SO cap-and-trade system.  Management is unable to predict if or how any replacement for CAIR will utilize the SO allowances from the Acid Rain Program.
2
2
2
2
:  The CAA establishes visibility goals for certain federally designated areas, including national parks, and requires states to submit SIPs that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward preventing impairment of visibility in these areas (Regional Haze program).  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued its Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), detailing how the CAAs best available retrofit technology (BART) requirements will be applied to facilities built between 1962 and 1977 that emit more than 250 tons per year of certain pollutants in specific industrial categories, including power plants.  The final rule contains a demonstration that CAIR will result in more visibility improvements than BART for power plants subject to it.  Thus, states are allowed to substitute CAIR requirements in their Regional Haze SIPs for controls that would otherwise be required by BART.  For BART-eligible facilities located in states (Oklahoma, Texas and Arkansas of the AEP System) not subject to CAIR requirements for SOand NO, some additional controls will be required.  The courts upheld the final rule.
Regional Haze
2
x
In January 2009, the Federal EPA issued a determination that 37 states (including Indiana, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and Virginia) failed to submit SIPs fulfilling the Regional Haze program requirements by the deadline, and commencing a 2-year period for the development of a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) in these states.  Management is unable to predict if or how the remand of CAIR or the development of a FIP for certain states may affect compliance obligations for the Regional Haze programs.
Estimated Air Quality Environmental Investments
The CAIR and the consent decree signed to settle the NSR litigation require significant additional investments, some of which are estimable.  Managements estimates are subject to significant uncertainties, and will be affected by any changes in the outcome of several interrelated variables and assumptions, including:  the timing of implementation; required levels of reductions; methods for allocation of allowances; and selected compliance alternatives and their costs.  In short, management cannot estimate compliance costs with certainty and the actual costs to comply could differ significantly from the estimates discussed below.
By the end of 2008, APCo, CSPCo and OPCo installed SCR technology on a total of 10,580 MW at their power plants to comply with NO requirements.  The Registrant Subsidiaries comply with SO requirements by installing scrubbers and using alternate fuels and SO allowances.  The Registrant Subsidiaries receive allowances through allocation and purchase at either the annual Federal EPA auction or in the market.  Decreasing allowance allocations, diminishing SO allowance banks, increasing allowance costs, CAIR and commitments in the consent decree will require installation of additional controls on the Registrant Subsidiaries power plants through 2019.  The Registrant Subsidiaries plan to install additional scrubbers on 8,200 MW for SO control.  This amount includes the installation of scrubbers on the Rockport Plant which is 50% owned by I&M and 50% owned by AEGCo.  From 2009 to 2013, the following table shows the total estimated costs for environmental investment and additional scrubbers and other SO equipment by Registrant Subsidiary:
x
2
2
2
2
2
These estimates may be revised as a result of the courts decision remanding the CAIR and CAMR.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will also incur additional operation and maintenance expenses in future years due to the costs associated with the maintenance of additional controls, disposal of byproducts and purchase of reagents.
Due to CAIR and the NSR settlement discussed above, the Registrant Subsidiaries expect to incur additional costs for pollution control technology retrofits between 2014 and 2020 totaling approximately $3.3 billion.  However, this estimate is highly uncertain due to the variability associated with: (1) the states implementation of these regulatory programs, including the potential for SIPs and FIPs that impose standards more stringent than CAIR; (2) additional rulemaking activities in response to the court decisions remanding the CAIR and CAMR; (3) the actual performance of the pollution control technologies installed on each unit; (4) changes in costs for new pollution controls; (5) new generating technology developments; and (6) other factors.  Associated operational and maintenance expenses will also increase during those years.  Management cannot estimate these additional operational and maintenance costs due to the uncertainties described above, but they are expected to be significant.
The Registrant Subsidiaries will seek recovery of expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement or additional generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions).  The Registrant Subsidiaries should be able to recover these expenditures through market prices in deregulated jurisdictions.  If not, those costs could adversely affect future net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Clean Water Act Regulation
In 2004, the Federal EPA issued a final rule requiring all large existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems to meet certain standards to reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against the plants cooling water intake screen or entrained in the cooling water.  The standards vary based on the water bodies from which the plants draw their cooling water.  Management expected additional capital and operating expenses, which the Federal EPA estimated could be $193 million for the Registrant Subsidiaries plants.  The Registrant Subsidiaries undertook site-specific studies and have been evaluating site-specific compliance or mitigation measures that could significantly change these cost estimates.  The following table shows the investment amount per Registrant Subsidiary:
In July 2007, the Federal EPA suspended the 2004 rule, except for the requirement that permitting agencies develop best professional judgment (BPJ) controls for existing facility cooling water intake structures that reflect the best technology available for minimizing  adverse environmental impact.  The result is that the BPJ control standard for cooling water intake structures in effect prior to the 2004 rule is the applicable standard for permitting agencies pending finalization of revised rules by the Federal EPA.  Management cannot predict further action of the Federal EPA or what effect it may have on similar requirements adopted by the states.  The Registrant Subsidiaries sought further review and filed for relief from the schedules included in their permits.
In April 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review decisions from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals that limit the Federal EPAs ability to weigh the retrofitting costs against environmental benefits.  Management is unable to predict the outcome of this appeal.
Potential Regulation of CO and Other GHG Emissions
2
The scientific community, led largely by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has provided scientific evidence that human activity, and particularly the combustion of fossil fuels, has increased the levels of GHG in the atmosphere and contributed to observed changes in the global climate system.  These findings have led to proposals for substantial transformation of the worlds energy production and transportation systems in order to slow, and ultimately reduce, the production of CO and other GHG emissions sufficiently to reduce atmospheric concentrations.  Because approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels, AEPs management is helping to lead the discussion nationally and internationally to find a reasonable, achievable approach and enact federal energy policy that is realistic in time frame and does not seriously harm the U.S. economy.  The AEP System is also developing advanced coal technologies so that coal can continue to be the important energy resource it is today.  The AEP System supports the adoption of an economy-wide, cap-and-trade GHG reduction program that allows electric companies to provide reliable, reasonably priced electricity to customers and that fosters the international participation that is necessary to make meaningful progress.
2
At the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Kyoto, Japan in 1997, more than 160 countries, including the U.S., negotiated a treaty requiring legally-binding reductions in GHG emissions.  The U.S. signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998, but the treaty was not submitted to the Senate for its consent.  During 2004, enough countries ratified the treaty for it to become enforceable against the ratifying countries in February 2005.  The first commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol ends in 2012.  Negotiations designed to lead to a global agreement on limiting GHG emissions after the Kyoto Protocol expires have commenced, and are focused on flexible mechanisms that can address the concerns expressed by the U.S. and others regarding the global impacts of increasing emissions in developing economies, including China, Brazil, and India, and mitigating the economic impacts of GHG reductions in developed countries given current economic conditions.
Since 2005, several members of Congress have introduced bills that would regulate GHG emissions, including emissions from power plants.  Congress has passed no legislation, but recent bills have received more serious consideration and some form of national legislation impacting the electric utility industry is likely to pass within the next few years.  Such legislation is likely to take the form of direct regulation of GHG emissions through cap-and-trade provisions.  In addition and related to climate change legislation, a national renewable portfolio standard, energy efficiency requirements for electric utilities and other measures may pass Congress in the next few years.
Several states have adopted programs that directly regulate GHG emissions from power plants, but none of these programs are currently in effect in states where the AEP System has generating facilities.  Certain of the states where the Registrant Subsidiaries operate have passed legislation establishing renewable energy, alternative energy and/or energy efficiency requirements (including Ohio, Michigan, Texas and Virginia).  The Registrant Subsidiaries are taking steps to comply with these requirements.  Through recent purchases of wind power and the existing wind assets that the AEP System has developed and future plans, the integrated resource plan contains a 10% renewable energy target by 2020, which is nearly double the level of renewable energy requirements in effect in those states.  Managements plans are based on the reasonable expectation that additional federal or state requirements may be enacted that will affect the AEP System.
AEPs management supports a reasonable approach to GHG emission reductions, including a mandate to achieve economy-wide reductions that recognizes a reliable and affordable electric supply is vital to economic stability.  The AEP System has taken measurable, voluntary actions to reduce and offset its GHG emissions.  The AEP System  participates in a number of voluntary programs to monitor, mitigate and reduce GHG emissions, including the Federal EPAs Climate Leaders program, the DOEs GHG reporting program and the Chicago Climate Exchange.  Through the end of 2007, the AEP System reduced emissions by a cumulative 46 million metric tons from adjusted baseline levels in 1998-2001 as a result of these voluntary actions.  The AEP Systems total GHG emissions in 2007 were 155.8 million metric tons.  AEPs management estimates that 2008 emission will be approximately 155 million metric tons and the cumulative reductions will be in excess of 51 metric million tons.
AEPs management believes that climate change is a global issue and that the United States should assume a leadership role in developing a new international approach that will address growing emissions from all nations, including developing countries such as India and China.  AEPs management, along with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), proposed that a consistent national policy for reasonable GHG controls should include the following principles:
In July 2007, AEP, along with several other utilities and labor unions, including the IBEW, announced support for the Low Carbon Economy Act of 2007.  This legislation requires GHG reductions beginning in 2012 through an economy-wide cap-and-trade program.  It contemplates reducing GHG emissions to their 2006 levels by 2020, and to their 1990 levels by 2030.  Allowances to emit GHG would be allocated, auctioned or a combination of each, including a safety valve allowance price of $12 per metric ton, subject to increasing adjustments.  The legislation also includes incentives for other nations to adopt measures to limit GHG emissions.  AEPs management endorses this legislation because it sets reasonable and achievable reduction targets and includes key elements of the AEP-IBEW principles.  AEPs management also supports the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) principles for federal climate change legislation, including the consensus approach developed by EEI for the allocation of emission allowances.
President Obama has stated that he favors climate legislation that would reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050 and require the auctioning of all allowances.  AEPs management opposes a 100% auction of GHG emission allowances, as it would substantially increase the costs of compliance on the AEP System and increase customer rates.  AEPs management supports reasonable emission reduction targets that allow sufficient time for technology development and recognize that commercial scale technologies to provide substantial GHG emission reductions at new or existing electric generating units are not currently available.
While comprehensive economy-wide regulation of GHG emissions might be achieved through new legislation, several states and interest groups petitioned the Federal EPA to establish GHG emission standards under the existing requirements of the CAA.  In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed and remanded the Federal EPAs determination that it lacked the authority to regulate GHG emissions from motor vehicles for purposes of climate change under the CAA.  In response to the Supreme Courts decision, the Federal EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in July 2008 seeking comment on its analysis of the applicability of various provisions of the CAA, and the suitability of different provisions of the mobile source, stationary source, and permitting programs under the CAA to effectively regulate GHG emissions.  AEPs management agrees with the assessment of the previous EPA Administrator that the existing authorities under the CAA are not well-suited to achieving economy-wide cost-effective reductions of GHG emissions.  Shortly after taking office, President Obama directed the Federal EPA to re-examine a decision denying the request by the State of California for a waiver that would allow states to establish higher fuel efficiency standards as a means of reducing GHG emissions from mobile sources.  Thirteen states have taken action that would implement the California standards if the Federal EPA issues such a waiver.  While this waiver, if issued, would have no immediate impact on stationary sources, should the Federal EPA choose to take other actions to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA, they could have a material impact upon the costs of operating fossil-fueled generating plants.
In addition, certain groups have filed lawsuits alleging that emissions of CO and other GHGs are a public nuisance and seeking injunctive relief and/or damages from small groups of coal-fired electricity generators, petroleum refiners and marketers, coal companies and others.  AEP and certain of its subsidiaries have been named in two pending lawsuits, which AEPs management is vigorously defending.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on operations or financial condition.  See Carbon Dioxide Public Nuisance Claims and Alaskan Villages Claims sections of Note 6.
2
AEPs management expects that GHG emissions, including those associated with the operation of fossil-fueled generating plants, will be limited by law or regulation in the future.  The manner or timing of any such limitations cannot be predicted.  While the AEP System is exploring a number of alternatives, including the capture and storage of GHG emissions from new and existing power generation facilities, there is currently no demonstrated technology that controls the emissions of GHG from fossil-fueled generating plants.  The AEP System is advancing more efficient technologies for power generation, including ultra-super-critical technology and IGCC, as authorized by the regulatory commissions.  Carbon capture and storage or other GHG limiting technology, if successfully demonstrated, is likely to have a material impact on the cost of operating fossil-fueled generating plants.  The AEP System is also pursuing renewable sources of energy generation, energy efficiency measures, gridSMART load management investments and other improved transmission, distribution and energy storage methods to reduce overall GHG emissions from its operations.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will seek recovery of the costs from customers through  regulated rates and market prices of electricity.
Other Environmental Concerns
Management performs environmental reviews and audits on a regular basis for the purpose of identifying, evaluating and addressing environmental concerns and issues.  In addition to the matters discussed above, the Registrant Subsidiaries manage other environmental concerns that are not believed to be material or potentially material at this time.  If they become significant or if any new matters arise that could be material, they could have a material adverse effect on net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures, including amounts related to legal matters and contingencies.  Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if:
Management discusses the development and selection of critical accounting estimates as presented below with the Audit Committee of AEPs Board of Directors and the Audit Committee reviews the disclosure relating to them.
Management believes that the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in the financial statements are appropriate.  However, actual results can differ significantly from those estimates.
The sections that follow present information about the Registrant Subsidiaries most critical accounting estimates, as well as the effects of hypothetical changes in the material assumptions used to develop each estimate.
Regulatory Accounting
  The financial statements of the Registrant Subsidiaries with cost-based rate-regulated operations (APCo, I&M, PSO and a portion of CSPCo, OPCo and SWEPCo) reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.
Nature of Estimates Required:
The Registrant Subsidiaries recognize regulatory assets (deferred expenses to be recovered in the future) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) for the economic effects of regulation.  Specifically, the Registrant Subsidiaries match the timing of expense recognition with the recovery of such expense in regulated revenues.  Likewise, they match income with the regulated revenues from their customers in the same accounting period.  Regulatory liabilities are also recorded for refunds, or probable refunds, to customers that have not been made.
   When incurred costs are probable of recovery through regulated rates, the Registrant Subsidiaries record them as regulatory assets on the balance sheet.  Regulatory assets are reviewed for probability of recovery at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur.  Examples of new events include changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  The assumptions and judgments used by regulatory authorities continue to have an impact on the recovery of costs, the rate of return earned on invested capital and the timing and amount of assets to be recovered through regulated rates.  If recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, that regulatory asset is written-off as a charge against earnings.  A write-off of regulatory assets may also reduce future cash flows since there will be no recovery through regulated rates.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
  A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on net income.  Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements of Registrant Subsidiaries for further detail related to regulatory assets and liabilities.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
Revenue Recognition  Unbilled Revenues
The Registrant Subsidiaries record revenues when energy is delivered to the customer.  The determination of sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month.  At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue accrual is recorded.  This estimate is reversed in the following month and actual revenue is recorded based on meter readings.  In accordance with the applicable state commission regulatory treatment in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas, PSO and SWEPCo do not record the fuel portion of unbilled revenue.
Nature of Estimates Required:
 
The change in unbilled electric utility revenues included in Revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
  For each Registrant Subsidiary, the monthly estimate for unbilled revenues is computed as net generation less the current months billed KWH plus the prior months unbilled KWH.  However, due to meter reading issues, meter drift and other anomalies, a separate monthly calculation limits the unbilled estimate within a range of values.  This limiter calculation is derived from an allocation of billed KWH to the current month and previous month, on a cycle-by-cycle basis, and dividing the current month aggregated result by the billed KWH.  The limits are statistically set at one standard deviation from this percentage to determine the upper and lower limits of the range.  The unbilled estimate is compared to the limiter calculation and adjusted for variances exceeding the upper and lower limits.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
Significant fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period, weather, line losses or changes in the composition of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate.  A 1% change in the limiter calculation when it is outside the range would increase or decrease unbilled revenues by 1% of the Accrued Unbilled Revenues on the balance sheets.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
 
Revenue Recognition  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
  Management considers fair value techniques, valuation adjustments related to credit and liquidity, and judgments related to the probability of forecasted transactions occurring within the specified time period to be critical accounting estimates.  These estimates are considered significant because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period and are dependent on many subjective factors.
Nature of Estimates Required:
The Registrant Subsidiaries measure the fair values of derivative instruments and hedge instruments accounted for using MTM accounting based on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price is not available, the fair value is estimated based on the best market information available including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes, supply and demand market data, and other assumptions.  Fair value estimates, based upon the best market information available, involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment.  These uncertainties include projections of macroeconomic trends and future commodity prices, including supply and demand levels and future price volatility.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
 
The Registrant Subsidiaries reduce fair values by estimated valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit quality.  Liquidity adjustments are calculated by utilizing future bid/ask spreads to estimate the potential fair value impact of liquidating open positions over a reasonable period of time.  Credit adjustments are based on estimated defaults by counterparties that are calculated using historical default probabilities for companies with similar credit ratings.  Management evaluates the probability of the occurrence of the forecasted transaction within the specified time period as provided in the original documentation related to hedge accounting.
  There is inherent risk in valuation modeling given the complexity and volatility of energy markets.  Therefore, it is possible that results in future periods may be materially different as contracts are ultimately settled.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
The probability that hedged forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the specified time period could change operating results by requiring amounts currently classified in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to be classified into operating income.
For additional information regarding derivatives, hedging and fair value measurements, see Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements of Registrant Subsidiaries.
Long-Lived Assets
  In accordance with the requirements of SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (SFAS 144), the Registrant Subsidiaries evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such assets may not be recoverable or the assets meet the held for sale criteria under SFAS 144.  The evaluations of long-lived held and used assets may result from abandonments, significant decreases in the market price of an asset, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical condition, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset, as well as other economic or operations analyses.  If the carrying amount is not recoverable, the Registrant Subsidiary records an impairment to the extent that the fair value of the asset is less than its book value.  For assets held for sale, an impairment is recognized if the expected net sales price is less than its book value.  For regulated assets, an impairment charge could be offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset, if rate recovery is probable.  For nonregulated assets, any impairment charge is recorded against earnings.
Nature of Estimates Required:
  The fair value of an asset is the amount at which that asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, the Registrant Subsidiaries estimate fair value using various internal and external valuation methods including cash flow projections or other market indicators of fair value such as bids received, comparable sales or independent appraisals.  The fair value of the asset could be different using different estimates and assumptions in these valuation techniques.
Assumptions and Approach Used:
  In connection with the evaluation of long-lived assets in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 144, the fair value of the asset can vary if different estimates and assumptions would have been used in the applied valuation techniques.  In cases of impairment, the best estimate of fair value was made using valuation methods based on the most current information at that time.  Fluctuations in realized sales proceeds versus the estimated fair value of the asset are generally due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, differences in subsequent market conditions, the level of bidder interest, timing and terms of the transactions and managements analysis of the benefits of the transaction.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
  The Registrant Subsidiaries participate in AEP sponsored pension and other retirement and postretirement benefit plans in various forms covering all employees who meet eligibility requirements.  These benefits are accounted for under SFAS 87, Employers Accounting For Pensions, SFAS 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions and SFAS 158.  See Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements of Registrant Subsidiaries for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement and postretirement benefits.  The measurement of pension and postretirement benefit obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of assumptions.
Nature of Estimates Required:
  The critical assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:
Assumptions and Approach Used:
Other assumptions, such as retirement, mortality and turnover, are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect actual experience.
  The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, longer or shorter life spans of participants or higher or lower lump sum versus annuity payout elections by plan participants.  These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recorded.  If a 50 basis point change were to occur for the following assumptions, the approximate effect on the financial statements would be as follows:
Effect if Different Assumptions Used:
New Accounting Pronouncements
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements in 2008
The Registrant Subsidiaries partially adopted SFAS 157 in 2008 and completed the adoption of SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2009.  The statement defines fair value, establishes a fair value measurement framework and expands fair value disclosures.  The adoption of SFAS 157 had an immaterial impact on the Registrant Subsidiaries financial statements.  See SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements section of Note 11 for further information.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective January 1, 2008.  The statement permitted entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  The standard also established presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparison between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities.  At adoption, the Registrant Subsidiaries did not elect the fair value option for any assets or liabilities.
 
The FASB issued SFAS 162 The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS 162), clarifying the sources of generally accepted accounting principles in descending order of authority.  The statement specifies that the reporting entity, not its auditors, is responsible for its compliance with GAAP.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 162 with no impact on their financial statements.
The FASB ratified EITF 06-10 Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements a consensus on
collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements in which an employee owns and controls the insurance policy.  Under EITF 06-10, an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if the employer has agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employee's retirement or to provide the employee with a death benefit based on a substantive arrangement with the employee.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 06-10 effective January 1, 2008 with a cumulative effect reduction to beginning retained earnings.  See Pronouncements Adopted in 2008 section of Note 2.
The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 06-11 Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards (EITF 06-11) effective January 1, 2008.  The rule addressed the recognition of income tax benefits of dividends on employee share-based compensation.  The adoption of this standard had an immaterial impact on their financial statements.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161.  Under the SFAS 133 requirements, the seller of a credit derivative shall disclose additional information for each derivative, including credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument, even if the likelihood of payment is remote.  Further, the standard requires the disclosure of current payment status/performance risk of all FIN 45 guarantees.  In the event an entity uses internal groupings, the entity shall disclose how those groupings are determined and used for managing risk.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the standard effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements but increased the guarantees disclosures in Note 6.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8 Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities amending SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and FIN 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  The amendments required additional disclosure regarding transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the standards effective December 31, 2008.  The adoption of these standards had no impact on the financial statements but increased the footnote disclosures for variable interest entities.  See Variable Interest Entities section of Note 15.
FSP FIN 39-1 amends FIN 39 Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts by replacing the interpretations definition of contracts with the definition of derivative instruments per SFAS 133.  It also requires entities that offset fair values of derivatives with the same party under a netting agreement to net the fair values of related cash collateral.  The entities must disclose whether or not they offset fair values of derivatives and related cash collateral and amounts recognized for cash collateral payables and receivables at the end of each reporting period.  This standard changed the method of netting certain balance sheet amounts.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted FIN 39-1 effective January 1, 2008.  See Pronouncements Adopted in 2008 section of Note 2.
New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted During the First Quarter of 2009
The FASB issued SFAS 141R (revised Business Combinations 2007) improving financial reporting about business combinations and their effects.  SFAS 141R can affect tax positions on previous acquisitions.  The Registrant Subsidiaries do not have any such tax positions that result in adjustments.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 141R effective January 1, 2009.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will apply it to any future business combinations.
The FASB issued SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160), modifying reporting for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in consolidated financial statements.  The statement requires noncontrolling interest be reported in equity and establishes a new framework for recognizing net income or loss and comprehensive income by the controlling interest.  OPCo and SWEPCo have retrospectively adopted SFAS 160.  See SFAS 160 Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements section of Note 2 for the impact of adoption.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements of APCo, CSPCo, I&M and PSO.
The FASB issued SFAS 161 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 161), enhancing disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  The standard requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation.  This standard will increase disclosure requirements related to derivative instruments and hedging activities in future reports.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted SFAS 161 effective January 1, 2009.
The FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-5 Issuers Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair Value with a Third-Party Credit Enhancement (EITF 08-5) a consensus on liabilities with third-party credit enhancements when the liability is measured and disclosed at fair value.  The consensus treats the liability and the credit enhancement as two units of accounting.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted EITF 08-5 effective January 1, 2009.  It will be applied prospectively with the effect of initial application included as a change in fair value of the liability in the period of adoption.  The adoption of this standard will impact the financial statements in the 2009 Annual Report as the Registrant Subsidiaries report fair value of long-term debt annually.
The FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-6 Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations (EITF 08-6), a consensus on equity method investment accounting including initial and allocated carrying values and subsequent measurements.  The Registrant Subsidiaries prospectively adopted EITF 08-6 effective January 1, 2009 with no impact on their financial statements.
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 142-3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assetsamending factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.  The Registrant Subsidiaries adopted the rule effective January 1, 2009.  The guidance is prospectively applied to intangible assets acquired after the effective date.  The standards disclosure requirements are applied prospectively to all intangible assets as of January 1, 2009.  The adoption of this standard had no impact on the financial statements.
 
Pronouncements Effective in the Future
The FASB issued FSP SFAS 132R-1 Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assetsproviding additional disclosure guidance for pension and OPEB plan assets.  The standard adds disclosure requirements including hierarchical classes for fair value and concentration of risk.  This standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Management expects this standard to increase the disclosure requirements related to AEPs benefit plans.  The Registrant Subsidiaries will adopt the standard effective for the 2009 Annual Report.
 



