FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20110705145009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to pages 37 and 38 under the caption TCC Rate Matters-Texas Restructuring Appeals in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Rate Matters in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 for American Electric Power Company, Inc (AEP).  On July 1, 2011, the Supreme Court of Texas (Court) issued its ruling on an appeal of the order of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) issued in connection with AEP Texas Central Companys (TCC) stranded cost and true-up application. The Court affirmed in part and reversed in part the Texas Court of Appeals decision and remanded the matter to the PUCT for further proceedings.
In April 2006, the PUCT issued its true-up order and TCC and a number of other parties appealed the PUCTs decision. The impact of the Courts decision regarding the matters on appeal is summarized as follows:
    
In its decision, the Court did not address the tax normalization issue. The Court of Appeals previously directed that it be remanded to the PUCT for further proceedings.
Based on the Courts decision, AEP estimates that, in the remand to the PUCT, TCC will be entitled to recover approximately $420 million, plus interest.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those projected. The statements in this report regarding the anticipated future recovery as a result of the Texas Supreme Courts decision, the estimated interest on such amounts, and any other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect actual results include the outcome of any requests to the Texas Supreme Court for rehearing and future actions by the PUCT in response to the Texas Supreme Courts ruling and other factors discussed in AEPs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
July 5, 2011


