FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20121113080301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Members of management of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the "Company) will attend and participate in meetings of the 47th Annual Edison Electric Institute Conference (the "EEI Conference"). A copy of presentation materials that will be used at the EEI Conference is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit listed below, is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding the intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations of the Company. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
November 12, 2012



