FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20120309151137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
On January 6, 2012, American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP), Ohio Power Company (OPCo) and Columbus Southern Power Company  (CSPCo)  filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the Initial Form 8-K) to report the completion of the previously announced merger whereby CSPCo merged with and into OPCo, with OPCo as the surviving entity (the Merger), pursuant to the terms of the agreement and plan of merger (the Agreement), dated as of December 31, 2011, between CSPCo and OPCo.  This amendment to the Initial Form 8-K amends and supplements Item 9.01 (b) of the Initial Form 8-K to provide the required financial information that was not filed with the Initial Form 8-K and that is permitted to be filed by this amendment. Upon consummation of the Merger, the separate legal existence of CSPCo terminated. Prior to the Merger, each of CSPCo and OPCo was a registrant subsidiary of AEP.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information:
In lieu of filing full pro forma financial statements, this filing incorporates by reference certain retrospectively revised financial statements showing OPCo (including merged results for the previous CSPCo) for all periods from OPCo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  The periods presented in the Form 10-K for OPCo (including merged results for the previous CSPCo) and incorporated by reference herein include on an audited basis:
For the presentation of OPCos financial statements in its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, all prior reported amounts have been recast as if the merger occurred on the first day of the earliest reporting period.  All contracts and operations of CSPCo and its subsidiary are now part of OPCo.  Balance sheet and income statement adjustments were made for consistent presentation between CSPCos and OPCos prior published documents, elimination of transactions between the two companies and merger transactions for equity.
Balance sheet adjustments included the following:
Income statement adjustments included the following:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
March 9, 2012


