FILE:AEP/AEP-8K-20120725090954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
On July 24, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Sandra Beach Lin to serve as a director of the Company.  Ms. Lins initial term as a director will continue until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.  The Board appointed Ms. Lin to the Polity Committee.
Ms. Lin retired as the Chief Executive Officer of Calisolar, Inc. in 2011.  She also served as Corporate Executive Vice President of Celanese Corporation.  Ms. Lin is on the Board of Directors of WESCO International.
 
The Board has determined that Ms. Lin is an independent director under the Companys Corporate Governance guidelines and the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
As a non-employee director, Ms. Lin will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the Company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the Board for non-employee directors as disclosed in the Companys 2012 Proxy Statement.
There are no arrangements between Ms. Lin and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Lin was elected to serve as a director, nor are there any transactions to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and in which Ms. Lin has a material interest.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
July 25, 2012


