Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Business Environment; Results of Operations in 2002 Compared to 2001; Results of Operations in 2001 Compared to 2000; Liquidity and Capital Resources; Reorganization of Business Operations; Forward Looking Information "Legal"; and Independent Auditors Report. Note 1 "Significant Accounting Policies" under the headings "Description of Company", "Research and development", and "Goodwill"; Note 2 "Acquisitions and Dispositions" under the headings "Magic Earth acquisition", "PES acquisition", "PGS Data Management acquisition", "European Marine Contractors Ltd. disposition", "Subsea 7 formation", and "Bredero Shaw disposition"; and Note 4 "Business Segment Information". In order to preserve the nature and character of the disclosures set forth in such items as originally filed, this report speaks as of the date of the original filing, and we have not updated the disclosures in this report to the date of the amended filing. While this report primarily relates to the historical periods covered, events may have taken place since the original filing that might have been reflected in this report if they had taken place prior to the original filing. All information contained in this Amendment No. 1 is subject to updating and supplementing by our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission subsequent to the date of the original filing of the Annual Report on Form 10 K on March 28, 2003. PART I Item 1. Business. General description of business. Halliburton Companys predecessor was established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1924. Halliburton Company provides a variety of services, products, maintenance, engineering and construction to energy, industrial and governmental customers. Our eight business segments are organized as follows: Pressure Pumping, Drilling and Formation Evaluation, and Other Energy Services (collectively, the "Energy Services Group"), and Onshore Operations, Offshore Operations, Government Operations, Operations and Maintenance Services, and Infrastructure Operations (collectively, the "Engineering and Construction Group"). Dresser Equipment Group is presented as discontinued operations through March 31, 2001 as a result of the sale in April 2001 of this business unit. See Note 4 to the financial statements for financial information about our business segments. Proposed global settlement. On December 18, 2002, we announced that we had reached an agreement in principle that, if and when consummated, would result in a global settlement of all asbestos and silica personal injury claims against DII Industries, LLC (DII Industries), Kellogg, Brown & Root, Inc. (Kellogg, Brown & Root) and their current and former subsidiaries. The agreement in principle provides that: up to $2.775 billion in cash, 59.5 million Halliburton shares (valued at $1.1 billion using the stock price at December 31, 2002 of $18.71) and notes with a net present value expected to be less than $100 million will be paid to a trust for the benefit of current and future asbestos personal injury claimants and current silica personal injury claimants upon receiving final and non appealable court confirmation of a plan of reorganization; DII Industries and Kellogg, Brown & Root will retain rights to the first $2.3 billion of any insurance proceeds with any proceeds received between $2.3 billion and $3.0 billion going to the trust; the agreement is to be implemented through a pre packaged Chapter 11 filing for DII Industries, Kellogg, Brown & Root and some of their subsidiaries; and the funding of the settlement amounts would occur upon receiving final and non appealable court confirmation of a plan of reorganization of DII Industries and Kellogg, Brown & Root and their subsidiaries in the Chapter 11 proceeding. Subsequently, as of March 2003, DII Industries and Kellogg, Brown & Root have entered into definitive written agreements finalizing the terms of the agreement in principle. In March 2003, we agreed with Harbison Walker and the asbestos creditors committee in the Harbison Walker bankruptcy to consensually extend the period of the stay contained in the Bankruptcy Courts temporary restraining order until July 21, 2003. The courts temporary restraining order, which was originally entered on February 14, 2002, stays more than 200,000 pending asbestos claims against DII Industries. The agreement provides that if the pre packaged Chapter 11 filing by DII Industries, Kellogg, Brown & Root and their subsidiaries is not made by July 14, 2003, the Bankruptcy Court will hear motions to lift the stay on July 21, 2003. The asbestos creditors committee also reserves the right to monitor progress toward the filing of the Chapter 11 proceeding and seek an earlier hearing to lift the stay if satisfactory progress toward the Chapter 11 filing is not being made. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Proposed global settlement" and Note 12 to the financial statements. Description of services and products. We offer a broad suite of products and services through our eight business segments. The following summarizes our services and products for each business segment. ENERGY SERVICES GROUP The Energy Services Group consists of the Pressure Pumping, Drilling and Formation Evaluation and Other Energy Services business segments. It provides a wide range of discrete services and products, as well as integrated solutions to customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and gas. The Energy Services Group serves major, national and independent oil and gas companies throughout the world. 1 Pressure Pumping The Pressure Pumping segment provides services used to complete oil and gas wells and to increase the amount of oil or gas recoverable from those wells. Major services and products offered include: production enhancement; cementing; and tools and testing services. Production enhancement optimizes oil and gas reservoirs through a variety of pressure pumping services, including fracturing and acidizing, sand control, coiled tubing, hydraulic workover and pipeline and process services. These services are used to clean out a formation or to fracture formations to allow increased oil and gas production. Cementing is the process used to bond the well and well casing while isolating fluid zones and maximizing wellbore stability. This is accomplished by pumping cement and chemical additives to fill the space between the casing and the side of the wellbore. Our cementing service line also provides casing equipment and services. Tools and testing services include underbalanced applications, tubing conveyed perforating products and services, drill stem and other well testing tools, data acquisition services and production applications. Drilling and Formation Evaluation The Drilling and Formation Evaluation segment is primarily involved in drilling and evaluating the formations related to bore hole construction and oil and gas formation evaluation. Major services and products offered include: drilling systems and services; drill bits; and logging and perforating. Our Sperry Sun business line provides drilling systems and services. These services include directional and horizontal drilling, measurement while drilling, logging while drilling, multilateral wells and related completion systems, and rig site information systems. Our drilling systems feature bit stability, directional control, borehole quality, low vibration and high rates of penetration while drilling directional wells. Drill bits, offered by our Security DBS business line, include roller cone rock bits, fixed cutter bits, coring equipment and services and other downhole tools used to drill wells. Logging and perforating products and services include our Magnetic Resonance Imaging Logging (MRIL(R)), high temperature logging, as well as traditional open hole and cased hole logging tools. MRIL(R) tools apply magnetic resonance imaging technology to the evaluation of subsurface rock formations in newly drilled oil and gas wells. Open hole tools provide information on well visualization, formation evaluation (including resistivity, porosity, lithology and temperature), rock mechanics and sampling. Cased hole tools provide cementing evaluation, reservoir monitoring, pipe evaluation, pipe recovery and perforating. Other Energy Services The Other Energy Services segment provides drilling fluids systems, completion products, integrated exploration and production software information systems, consulting services, real time operations, smartwells, integrated solutions, and subsea operations. Our Baroid business line provides drilling fluid systems and performance additives for oil and gas drilling, completion and workover operations. In addition, Baroid sells products to a wide variety of industrial customers. Drilling fluids usually contain bentonite or barite in a water or oil base. Drilling fluids primarily improve wellbore stability and facilitate the transportation of cuttings from the bottom of a wellbore to the surface. The fluids also help cool the drill bit, seal porous well formations and assist in pressure control within a wellbore. Fluids are often customized by onsite engineers for optimum stability and enhanced oil production. Completion products include subsurface safety valves and flow control equipment, surface safety systems, packers and specialty completion equipment, production automation, well screens, well control services and slickline equipment and services. Landmark Graphics is the leading supplier of integrated exploration and production software information systems as well as professional and data management services for the upstream oil and gas industry. Landmark Graphics software transforms vast quantities of seismic, well log and other data into detailed computer models of petroleum reservoirs to achieve optimal business and technical decisions in exploration, development and production activities. Landmark Graphics broad range of professional services enables our worldwide 2 customers to optimize technical, business and decision processes. Data management services provide efficient storage, browsing and retrieval of large volumes of exploration and petroleum data. The products and services offered by Landmark Graphics integrate data workflows and operational processes across disciplines including geophysics, geology, drilling, engineering, production, economics, finance and corporate planning, and key partners and suppliers. This segment provides value added oilfield project management and integrated solutions to independent, integrated and national oil companies. Integrated solutions enhance field deliverability and maximize a customers return on investment. These services leverage all of our products and technologies, as well as project management capabilities. Also included in this segment is our equity method investment in Well Dynamics B.V., an intelligent well completions joint venture, our equity method investment in Enventure Global Technology, LLC, which is an expandable casing joint venture and our subsea operations conducted in our 50% owned company, Subsea 7, Inc. Other services provide installation and servicing of subsea facilities and pipelines. ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION GROUP The Engineering and Construction Group, operating as KBR, provides a wide range of services to energy and industrial customers and government entities worldwide. KBR offers the following: Onshore Operations segment provides engineering and construction activities, including engineering and construction of liquefied natural gas, ammonia and crude oil refineries and natural gas plants; Offshore Operations segment provides deepwater engineering and marine technology and related worldwide fabrication capabilities; Government Operations segment provides construction, maintenance and logistics activities for government facilities and installations; Operations and Maintenance Services segment provides plant operations, maintenance and start up services for both upstream and downstream oil, gas and petrochemical facilities as well as operations, maintenance and logistics services for the power, commercial and industrial markets; and Infrastructure Operations segment provides civil engineering, consulting and project management services. Dispositions in 2002. During 2002, we disposed of non core businesses in our Other Energy Services segment listed below: In January 2002, we sold our 50% interest in European Marine Contractors Limited, an unconsolidated joint venture, which provided offshore pipeline services, to our joint venture partner, Saipem; In August 2002, we sold several properties that were located in the United States; and In September 2002, we sold our 50% interest in Bredero Shaw, a pipecoating joint venture, to our partner ShawCor Ltd. These dispositions will have an immaterial impact on our future operations. In addition, in May 2002, we contributed substantially all of our Halliburton Subsea assets for 50% of the ownership in a newly formed company, Subsea 7, Inc. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to 2002 dispositions and the creation of Subsea 7, Inc. Business strategy. Our business strategy is to maintain global leadership in providing energy services and products and engineering and construction services. We provide these services and products to our customers as discrete services and products and, when combined with project management services, as integrated solutions. Our ability to be a global leader depends on meeting four key goals: establishing and maintaining technological leadership; achieving and continuing operational excellence; creating and continuing innovative business relationships; and preserving a dynamic workforce. 3 Markets and competition. We are one of the worlds largest diversified energy services and engineering and construction services companies. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to offer a wide array of services and products on a global scale. Our services and products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include: price, service delivery (including the ability to deliver services and products on an "as needed, where needed" basis), service quality, product quality, warranty and technical proficiency. While we provide a wide range of discrete services and products, a number of customers have indicated a preference for integrated services and solutions. In the case of the Energy Services Group, integrated services and solutions relate to all phases of exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. In the case of the Engineering and Construction Group, integrated services and solutions relate to all phases of design, procurement, construction, project management and maintenance of facilities primarily for energy and government customers. We conduct business worldwide in over 100 countries. For 2002, the United States represented 33% of our total revenue and the United Kingdom represented 12%. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Since the markets for our services and products are vast and cross numerous geographic lines, a meaningful estimate of the total number of competitors cannot be made. The industries we serve are highly competitive and we have many substantial competitors. Substantially all of our services and products are marketed through our servicing and sales organizations. Operations in some countries may be adversely affected by unsettled political conditions, acts of terrorism, expropriation or other governmental actions and exchange control and currency problems. We believe the geographic diversification of our business activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. While Venezuela accounted for less than two percent of our 2002 revenues, the current economic and political instability in Venezuela will negatively impact our operations until resolved. In addition, as a result of the breadth of our businesses and the inherently unpredictable impact of the armed conflict in the Middle East, we are unable to predict their impact on our results of operations. Moreover, due to rising levels of civil disturbance, a number of our customers has ceased operations in the Nigerian Delta region. Energy Services operations in Nigeria accounted for approximately 2% of our revenues in 2002, and these developments could negatively impact our operations in 2003. Information regarding our exposures to foreign currency fluctuations, risk concentration and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Instrument Market Risk" and in Note 19 to the financial statements. Customers and backlog. Our revenues from continuing operations during the past three years were mainly derived from the sale of services and products to the energy industry. Sales of services and products to the energy industry in 2002 represented 86% of revenues from continuing operations compared to 85% in 2001 and 84% in 2000. The following schedule summarizes the backlog from continuing operations of engineering and construction projects at December 31, 2002 and 2001: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 Firm orders $ 8,704 $ 8,118 Government orders firm but not yet funded, letters of intent and contracts awarded but not signed 1,330 1,794 Total $ 10,034 $ 9,912 Of the total backlog at December 31, 2002, $9,776 million relates to KBR operations with the remainder arising from our Energy Services Group, principally in the Other Energy Services segment. We estimate that 43% of the total backlog existing at December 31, 2002 will be completed during 2003. Approximately 37% of total backlog relates to fixed price contracts with the remaining 63% relating to cost reimbursable contracts. In addition, backlog relating to engineering, procurement, installation and commissioning contracts for the offshore oil and gas industry totaled $904 million at December 31, 2002. For contracts that are not for a specific amount, backlog is estimated as follows: 4 operations and maintenance contracts that cover multiple years are included in backlog based upon an estimate of the work to be provided over the next twelve months; and government contracts that cover a broad scope of work up to a maximum value are included in backlog at the estimated amount of work to be completed under the contract based upon periodic consultation with the customer. For projects where we act as project manager, we only include our scope of each project in backlog. For projects related to unconsolidated joint ventures, we only include our percentage ownership of each joint ventures backlog. Our backlog excludes contracts for recurring hardware and software maintenance and support services offered by Landmark Graphics. Backlog is not indicative of future operating results because backlog figures are subject to substantial fluctuations. Arrangements included in backlog are in many instances extremely complex, nonrepetitive in nature and may fluctuate in contract value and timing. Many contracts do not provide for a fixed amount of work to be performed and are subject to modification or termination by the customer. The termination or modification of any one or more sizeable contracts or the addition of other contracts may have a substantial and immediate effect on backlog. Raw materials. Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available. Where we rely on a single supplier for materials essential to our business, we are confident that we could make satisfactory alternative arrangements in the event of an interruption in supply. Research and development costs. We maintain an active research and development program. The program improves existing products and processes, develops new products and processes and improves engineering standards and practices that serve the changing needs of our customers. Our expenditures for research and development activities totaled $233 million in both 2002 and 2001 and $231 million in 2000. Further information relating to our expenditures for research and development is included in Note 1 to the financial statements. Patents. We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial number of patent applications covering various products and processes. We are also licensed to utilize patents owned by others. Included in "Other assets" are patents, net of accumulated amortization, totaling $58 million as of December 31, 2002 and $49 million as of December 31, 2001. We do not consider any particular patent or group of patents to be material to our business operations. Seasonality. Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the performance of our services, but the widespread geographical locations of our operations serve to mitigate those effects. Examples of how weather can impact our business include: the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on gas storage levels and drilling activity for natural gas; the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions; typhoons and hurricanes can disrupt offshore operations; and severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea. Employees. At December 31, 2002, we employed approximately 83,000 people worldwide compared to 85,000 at December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2002, approximately five percent of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Based upon the geographic diversification of these employees, we believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would not be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. Environmental regulation. We are subject to numerous environmental, legal and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. In the United States, these laws and regulations include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, among others. In addition to the federal laws and regulations, states where we do business may have equivalent laws and regulations with which we must abide. We evaluate and address the environmental impact of our operations by assessing and remediating contaminated properties in order to avoid future liabilities and comply with environmental, legal and regulatory requirements. On occasion we are involved in specific environmental litigation and claims, including the remediation of properties we own or have operated as well as efforts to meet or correct compliance related matters. 5 We do not expect costs related to these remediation requirements to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or our results of operations. We have subsidiaries that have been named as potentially responsible parties along with other third parties for ten federal and state superfund sites for which we have established a liability. As of December 31, 2002, those ten sites accounted for $8 million of our total $48 million liability. See Note 12 to the financial statements. Website access. The Companys annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Companys internet website at www.halliburton.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 2. Properties. We own or lease numerous properties in domestic and foreign locations. The following locations represent our major facilities: Owned/ Location Leased Sq. Footage Description Energy Services Group North America Drilling and Formation Evaluation Segment: Dallas, Texas Owned 352,000 Manufacturing facility includes office, laboratory and warehouse space that primarily produces roller cone drill bits. In 2002, we announced plans to move production from this facility to a new facility in The Woodlands, Texas. The planned move is expected in 2003. Other Energy Services Segment: Carrollton, Texas Owned 792,000 Manufacturing facility including warehouses, engineering and sales, testing, training and research. The manufacturing plant produces equipment for the Other Energy Services segment, including surface and subsurface safety valves and packer assemblies. Shared Facilities: Duncan, Oklahoma Owned 1,275,000 Four locations which include manufacturing capacity totaling 655,000 square feet. The manufacturing facility is the main manufacturing site for cementing, fracturing and acidizing equipment. The Duncan facilities also include a technology and research center, training facility, administrative offices and warehousing. These facilities service our Pressure Pumping, Drilling and Formation Evaluation and Other Energy Services segments. 6 Owned/ Location Leased Sq. Footage Description Shared Facilities (contd): Houston, Texas Owned 690,000 Two suburban campus locations utilized by our Drilling and Formation Evaluation and Other Energy Services segments. One campus is on 89 acres consisting of office, training, test well, warehouse, manufacturing and laboratory facilities. The manufacturing facility, which occupies 115,000 square feet, produces highly specialized downhole equipment for our Drilling and Formation Evaluation segment. The other campus is a manufacturing facility with limited office, laboratory and warehouse space that primarily produces fixed cutter drill bits. Houston, Texas Owned 593,000 A campus facility that is the home office for the Energy Services Group. Alvarado, Texas Owned 238,000 Manufacturing facility including some office and warehouse space. The manufacturing facility produces perforating products and exploratory and formation evaluation tools for our Drilling and Formation Evaluation and Pressure Pumping segments. Europe/Africa Other Energy Services Segment: Arbroath, United Kingdom Owned 119,000 Manufacturing site that produces completion products. Montrose, United Kingdom Owned 213,000 Service operation center for completion products and services equipment set on a 7.5 acre site including office, workshop, warehouse, and yard used as open storage. Also accommodates a development center with two training wells. Shared Facilities: Aberdeen, United Kingdom Owned 1,216,000 A total of 26 sites including 866,000 square feet of Leased 365,000 manufacturing capacity used by various business segments. Tananger, Norway Leased 319,000 Service center with workshops, testing facilities, warehousing and office facilities supporting the Norwegian North Sea operations. 7 Owned/ Location Leased Sq. Footage Description Engineering and Construction Group North America Shared Facilities: Houston, Texas Leased 851,000 Engineering and project support center which occupies 33 full floors in 2 office buildings. One of these buildings is owned by a joint venture in which we have a 50% ownership. The remaining 50% of the joint venture is owned by a subsidiary of Trizec Properties Inc. (NYSE: TRZ). Trizec is not affiliated with Halliburton Company or any of its directors or executive officers. Houston, Texas Owned 1,017,000 A campus facility occupying 135 acres utilized primarily for administrative and support personnel. Approximately 221,000 square feet is dedicated to maintenance and warehousing of construction equipment. This campus also serves as office facilities for KBRs headquarters and our temporary corporate headquarters. Europe/Africa Shared Facilities: Leatherhead, United Kingdom Owned 226,000 Engineering and project support center on 55 acres in suburban London. In 2002, we closed our Dallas corporate office and temporarily relocated it to the Houston facility that also serves as headquarters for KBR. In 2003, the corporate headquarters will be moved from this location to offices in downtown Houston which are currently being completed. In addition, we have 181 international and 108 domestic field camps from which the Energy Services Group delivers its products and services. We also have numerous small facilities that include sales offices, project offices and bulk storage facilities throughout the world. We own or lease marine fabrication facilities covering approximately 761 acres in Texas, England and Scotland which are used by the Engineering and Construction Group. We have mineral rights to proven and probable reserves of barite and bentonite. These rights include leaseholds, mining claims and owned property. We process barite and bentonite for supply to many industrial markets worldwide in addition to using it in our drilling fluids operations. Based on the number of tons of bentonite consumed in fiscal year 2002, we estimate our 22 million tons of proven reserves in areas of active mining are sufficient to fulfill our internal and external needs for the next 15 years. We estimate that our 750,000 tons of proven reserves of barite in areas of active mining equate to a 27 year supply based on current rates of production. These estimates are subject to change based on periodic updates to reserve estimates and to the extent future consumption differs from current levels of consumption. We believe all properties that we currently occupy are suitable for their intended use. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Information relating to various commitments and contingencies is described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 to the financial statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2002. 8 Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers of the registrant as of February 1, 2003, along with a listing of all offices held by each during the past five years: Name and Age Offices Held and Term of Office Jerry H. Blurton Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, since July 1996 (Age 58) Cedric W. Burgher Vice President Investor Relations of Halliburton Company, since September 2001 (Age 42) Vice President of Enron Corp. and Enron Oil & Gas Company, March 1996 to September 2001 Assistant Treasurer of Baker Hughes, Inc., March 1993 to March 1996 Margaret E. Carriere Vice President, Secretary and Corporate Counsel of Halliburton Company, since (Age 51) September 2002 Vice President and Corporate Counsel of Halliburton Company, May 2002 to September 2002 Vice President Human Resources of Halliburton Company, August 2000 to May 2002 Vice President Legal and Secretary of Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., February 2000 to August 2000 Law Department Manager of Integration & Development of Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., October 1998 to February 2000 Region Chief Counsel (London) Europe/Africa Law Department of Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., May 1994 to September 1998 * Albert O. Cornelison, Jr. Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Halliburton Company, since (Age 53) December 2002 Vice President and General Counsel of Halliburton Company, May 2002 to December 2002 Vice President and Associate General Counsel of Halliburton Company, October 1998 to May 2002 Staff Vice President and Associate General Counsel of Dresser Industries, Inc., February 1994 to September 1998 Charles E. Dominy Vice President Government Affairs of Halliburton Company, since December 2000 (Age 62) Vice President, Business Development of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., September 1995 to December 2000 * Douglas L. Foshee Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, since (Age 43) August 2001 Chairman, President and CEO of Nuevo Energy Company, July 1997 to May 2001 President and Chief Executive Officer of Torch Energy Advisors, Inc., May 1995 to July 1997 * John W. Gibson, Jr. Chief Executive Officer of Energy Services Group, since January 2003 (Age 45) President of Halliburton Energy Services, March 2002 to December 2002 President and Chief Executive Officer of Landmark, May 2000 to February 2002 Chief Operating Officer of Landmark, July 1999 to April 2000 Executive Vice President of Integrated Products Group, February 1996 to June 1999 9 Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued) Name and Age Offices Held and Term of Office * Robert R. Harl Chief Executive Officer of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., since March 2001 (Age 52) President of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., since October 2000 Vice President of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., March 1999 to October 2000 Chief Executive Officer and President of Brown & Root Energy Services Division of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., April 2000 to February 2001 Chief Executive Officer of Brown & Root Services Division of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., January 1999 to April 2000 Chief Executive Officer and President of Brown & Root Services Corporation, November 1996 to January 1999 Vice President of Brown & Root, Inc., July 1989 to July 1998 Arthur D. Huffman Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Halliburton Company, since (Age 50) August 2000 Chief Information Officer of Group Air Liquide, 1997 to August 2000 Vice President Information Technology of Air Liquide America Corporation, 1995 to 1997 * David J. Lesar Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton (Age 49) Company, since August 2000 Director of Halliburton Company, since August 2000 President and Chief Operating Officer of Halliburton Company, May 1997 to August 2000 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, August 1995 to May 1997 Chairman of the Board of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., January 1999 to August 2000 President and Chief Executive Officer of Brown & Root, Inc., September 1996 to December 1998 Weldon J. Mire Vice President Human Resources of Halliburton Company, since May 2002 (Age 55) Division Vice President of Halliburton Energy Services, January 2001 to May 2002 Asia Pacific Sales Manager of Halliburton Energy Services, November 1999 to January 2001 Director of Business Development, September 1999 to November 1999 Global Director of Strategic Business Development, January 1999 to November 1999 Senior Shared Service Manager Houston, November 1998 to January 1999 IS Project Manager II Venezuela, May 1998 to November 1998 Tools and Testing and TCP Product Manager, July 1997 to May 1998 R. Charles Muchmore, Jr. Vice President and Controller of Halliburton Company, since August 1996 (Age 49) 10 Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued) Name and Age Offices Held and Term of Office David R. Smith Vice President Tax of Halliburton Company, since May 2002 (Age 56) Vice President Tax of Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., September 1998 to May 2002 Vice President Tax of Dresser Industries, Inc., 1993 to September 1998 * Members of the Policy Committee of the registrant. There are no family relationships between the executive officers of the registrant or between any director and any executive officer of the registrant. 11 PART II Item 5.Market for the Registrants Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters. Halliburton Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Swiss Exchange. Information relating to the high and low market prices of common stock and quarterly dividend payment is included under the caption "Quarterly Data and Market Price Information" on pages 99 and 100 of this annual report. Cash dividends on common stock for 2002 and 2001 were paid in March, June, September, and December of each year. Our Board of Directors intends to consider the payment of quarterly dividends on the outstanding shares of our common stock in the future. The declaration and payment of future dividends, however, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things: future earnings; general financial condition and liquidity; success in business activities; capital requirements; and general business conditions. At December 31, 2002, there were approximately 25,027 shareholders of record. In calculating the number of shareholders, we consider clearing agencies and security position listings as one shareholder for each agency or listing. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Information relating to selected financial data is included on pages 96 through 98 of this annual report. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Information relating to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is included on pages 14 through 46 of this annual report. Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Information relating to market risk is included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption "Financial Instrument Market Risk" on page 39 of this annual report. 12 
 
