Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations GENERAL The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company). The discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 2, 2004. There are three primary objectives of this discussion: to provide a narrative explanation of the financial statements, as presented through the eyes of management; to enhance the disclosures in the financial statements and footnotes, providing context within which the financial statements should be analyzed; and to provide information to assist the reader in ascertaining the predictive value of the reported financial results. To achieve these objectives, the discussion is presented in the following sections: Overview includes a brief description of the business and how it earns revenue and generates cash, as well as a discussion of the key business drivers, economic and industry factors, fiscal 2004 highlights and fiscal 2005 commentary. Results of Operations discusses year over year changes to operating results for fiscal 2002 to 2004, describing the factors affecting revenue on a consolidated and reporting segment basis, including new contracts, acquisitions and currency impacts, and also by describing the factors affecting changes in the major cost and expense categories. Financial Condition discusses causes of changes in cash flows and describes the Companys liquidity position and available capital resources. Critical Accounting Estimates discusses accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors that May Affect Future Results describes the nature of forward looking statements and lists several factors that may affect future results. OVERVIEW The Companys primary service offerings are information technology (I/T) outsourcing and I/T and professional services. Outsourcing involves operating all or a portion of a customers technical infrastructure and also includes business process outsourcing. I/T and professional services include systems integration, consulting, and other professional services and also include product sales and related services. CSC provides these services to customers in the global commercial and U.S. federal markets. CSC also provides certain non I/T technical services, including aircraft maintenance, marine services and security services, primarily to U.S. federal customers. On a geographic basis, CSC provides services to global commercial customers in the United States, Europe, and Other International locations. Operations in Australia, Asia and Canada generate substantially all revenue within Other International. Economic and Industry Factors Global commercial markets are affected by various economic and industry factors. The economic environment in the regions CSC serves will impact customers decisions for discretionary spending on I/T projects. CSC is in a highly competitive industry, which keeps pressure on pricing and requires companies to continually seek ways to differentiate themselves through several factors, including service offerings. 10 Management monitors industry factors including relative market shares, growth rates, billing rates, staff utilization rates, margins as well as macroeconomic indicators such as interest rates, inflation rates, and foreign currency rates. The U.S. federal market is also highly competitive, and also has some unique characteristics. All U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be modified, curtailed or terminated at the convenience of the government if program requirements or budgetary constraints change. In the event that a contract is terminated for convenience, the Company generally is reimbursed for its allowable costs through the date of termination and is paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profit or fee attributable to the work actually performed. Shifting priorities of the U.S. government can impact the future of projects as well. The Company recognized the increased priorities on defense and homeland security programs and has focused substantial business development efforts in these areas. Management monitors government priorities and industry factors via numerous industry and government publications and forecasts, legislative activity, budgeting and appropriation processes, and by participating in industry professional associations. Business Drivers Revenue is generated by providing services on a variety of different types of contracts lasting from less than six months to 10 years or more. Factors affecting revenue include: the Companys ability to successfully bid on and win new contract awards, the ability to satisfy existing customers and obtain add on business and win contract re competes, the ability to compete on price, services offered, technical ability and experience, the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and leverage them to generate new revenues, and for international business, currency fluctuations. Earnings are driven by the above revenue factors, in addition to the following: the ability to control costs, particularly labor costs, subcontractor expenses and overhead costs including healthcare, pension, general and administrative costs, the ability to anticipate headcount needs to avoid staff shortages or excesses, and the ability to effectively estimate various factors incorporated in contract bids and proposals. Cash flows are impacted by earnings and revenues, among other factors, including the following: timely management of receivables and payables, investment opportunities presented during a given year (particularly related to business acquisitions and large outsourcing contracts), and the ability to manage capital in order to generate adequate returns from these investments. Key Performance Indicators The Company manages and assesses the performance of its business through various means, with the primary financial measures including new contract wins, revenue growth, margins, cash flow, and return on investment. New contract wins In addition to being a primary driver of future revenue, focusing on new contract wins also provides management an assessment of the Companys ability to compete. The total level of wins tends to fluctuate from year to year depending on the timing of new and recompeting contracts as well as numerous external factors. 11 Revenue growth Year over year revenues tend to vary less than new contract wins, and reflect performance on both new and existing contracts. Given the wide array of services CSC offers, the Companys ability to obtain additional work from existing customers is an important factor. In addition, incremental increases in revenue will not necessarily result in similar increases in costs, particularly overhead and other indirect costs, thus potentially improving profit margins. Margins Margins reflect the Companys performance on contracts. While the ratios of various cost elements as a percentage of revenue can shift as a result of acquisitions with different cost profiles, such as was the impact of the March 2003 DynCorp acquisition on fiscal 2004 ratios, a focus on maintaining and improving overall margins leads to improved efficiencies and profitability. Cash flow A primary driver affecting CSCs cash flow is the ability to manage receivables and payables. Thus, a review of the receivables measurement of "days sales outstanding" (DSO) supports an ongoing focus on timely collections. The Company also regularly reviews the GAAP cash flow measurements of operating, investing and financing cash flows. Return on investment (ROI) ROI is an effective indicator combining a focus on margins with efficient and productive net asset utilization. A combination of strong margins and investment base turnover is required to generate sufficient returns on invested capital. In addition, the timing of cash flows impacts ROI, so that large, up front investments (particularly on new outsourcing contracts) require higher profits in order to garner adequate ROI. Readers should be cautioned that DSO, free cash flow and ROI are not GAAP measures, and that the Companys definition of such measures may differ from other companies. Therefore, such measures may not be comparable to other companies. CSC calculates DSO as follows: Total receivables at quarter end divided by revenue per day. Revenue per day equals total revenues for the quarter divided by the number of days in the quarter. Free cash flow is equal to the sum of operating and investing cash flows, excluding acquisitions and dispositions. ROI is calculated by multiplying profit margin times investment base turnover. The profit margin used is profit before interest and special items and after tax divided by revenues. Investment base turnover equals revenues divided by average debt and equity. Fiscal 2004 Highlights Highlights of the year included: Revenues rose 30.2%, approximately 25% before currency fluctuations. The Companys March 2003 acquisition of DynCorp contributed 24.3% points of growth. Net income grew 18.0% (20.5% before the impact of a DynCorp acquisition related special charge). Earnings per share were up 8.3% (10.5% before the DynCorp special charge). Record contract awards of $17.2 billion were announced, more than double the prior year, with new Global Commercial awards totaling $9.7 billion and new U.S. Federal awards of $7.5 billion. Cash flows from operating activities generated $1.7 billion versus $1.1 billion in fiscal 2003, investing activities used cash of $1.3 billion versus $994 million in the prior year, and free cash flow grew to $355 million, up from $237 million in fiscal 2003. DSO improved to 82 days, down from 83 days (normalized for DynCorp) at the end of the prior year. Debt to total capitalization ratio was 30.1% at year end, improved from 35.0% a year earlier. ROI for the year was 8.7%, up from the prior year of 8.6%. 12 The Companys level of announced new business awards was the highest in CSCs history. Significant wins included the following. Global Commercial: Royal Mail Group ($2.4 billion), United Kingdom National Health Service ($1.7 billion), SAS Group ($1.5 billion), Marconi Corporation ($735 million), Swiss Re Life & Health ($700 million), National Grid Transco ($470 million), ISS ($450 million), and Malayan Banking Berhad ($342 million). U.S. Federal: U.S. State Departments Civilian Police Program ($1.8 billion), U.S. Army Aviation Center ($1.1 billion), U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command ($406 million), National Aeronautics and Space Administration ($228 million), U.S. Postal Service ($200 million), and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ($200 million). These multi year awards represent the estimated value at contract signing. They cannot be considered firm orders, however, due to their variable attributes, including demand driven usage, modifications in scope of work due to changing customer requirements, and the annual funding constraints and indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity characteristics of major portions of the Companys U.S. federal activities. Revenue growth was led by CSCs Federal sector, which benefited significantly from the acquisition of DynCorp in March 2003. Global Commercial revenues were positively impacted by recent large outsourcing contract wins, particularly in Europe, but were offset by declines elsewhere. Currency shifts during the year also favorably impacted revenue. The Companys growth has created a broad, long term global revenue base across numerous customers, industries, geographic regions and service offerings. Over 80% of CSCs revenues come from long term contracts including Global Commercial outsourcing and U.S. federal government engagements. A combination of fiscal 2004 earnings and strong working capital management contributed to debt reduction and a large cash balance at year end. Cash used to pay down debt during the year drove the debt to total capitalization ratio down to its lowest level in over three and a half years. Higher cash flow generated from operating activities in fiscal 2004 was a result of higher earnings with larger non cash expense components such as depreciation and amortization. Higher outflows of cash for investing activities were primarily a result of up front investments on new outsourcing contracts requiring fixed asset purchases as well as other capitalized costs. 13 Fiscal 2005 Commentary Since DynCorp has now been part of CSC for over a year, the year over year growth rates in revenue and earnings experienced during fiscal 2004 will not be repeated in fiscal 2005. However, the U.S. Federal sector reporting segment is well positioned to benefit from the anticipated growing demands of the U.S. federal government. The U.S. federal government is one of the worlds largest information technology services customers, and its spending is expected to continue to increase during calendar 2004 in order to improve technologies in the areas of defense, homeland security, civil agency modernization, and education. While the ultimate distribution of U.S. federal funds and project assignments remain uncertain, the Company expects its information technologies and outsourcing capabilities, including the skill set acquired with DynCorp, to be viewed favorably by the U.S. federal government. While demand for information technology outsourcing services continued to grow, particularly in Europe, the information technology services industry continued to experience overall sluggish global demand for commercial project oriented activities during fiscal 2004. Many customers maintained low levels of discretionary spending in response to the economic environment in their particular regions. However, indications suggest stabilization is occurring in the U.S. markets demand for consulting and systems integration services, although the Company expects continued pressure on demand for information technology services in European and Other International markets. Worldwide global demand for outsourcing services is expected to be strong again during fiscal 2005. While the future demand for outsourcing services is unknown, the long term nature of major outsourcing engagements allows outsourcing providers such as CSC to benefit from a certain level of continuity. Thus, the record setting year in new business awards, much of which came from new outsourcing engagements, is expected to generate growth in Global Commercial reporting segment revenues in fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2004, the Companys Global Commercial segment benefited from currency fluctuations in Europe and Other International regions. The Company cannot forecast future movement in currency exchange rates or its impact on operating results. The Companys overall short term financial objectives include: 1. Successfully launch the numerous new contracts won during fiscal 2004, with particular focus on the large new outsourcing contracts. 2. Maintain appropriate investment base turnover rates and operating margins, particularly focusing on the new business, in order to generate an improved return on investment. 3. Pursue the large current pipeline of commercial and U.S. Federal opportunities and win the Companys proportionate share. The Companys primary long term objective is to continue developing and obtaining the core capabilities and differentiating factors that will enable CSC to compete effectively in both the Federal and Global Commercial markets. The Company will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities that can enhance its core capabilities and review its portfolio of business operations for overall strategic fit. Continued long term revenue and earnings growth will come from the combination of internal growth and acquisitions. 14 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues Revenues for the Global Commercial and U.S. Federal sector segments (see Note 13) for fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 are as follows: Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2002 Dollars in millions Amount Percent Change Amount Percent Change Amount U.S. Commercial $ 3,686.2 (4.7 )% $ 3,868.2 (10.2 )% $ 4,307.5 Europe 3,681.8 23.5 2,981.2 1.6 2,934.2 Other International 1,210.8 5.1 1,151.6 (8.9 ) 1,264.0 Global Commercial 8,578.8 7.2 8,001.0 (5.9 ) 8,505.7 U.S. Federal Sector 6,188.6 84.9 3,347.4 16.5 2,873.3 Corporate .2 (1.9 ) .2 Total $ 14,767.6 30.2 $ 11,346.5 (.3 ) $ 11,379.2 The major factors affecting the percent change in revenues are presented as follows: Fiscal 2004 vs. Fiscal 2003 DynCorp Acquisition Approximate Impact of Currency Fluctuations Net Internal Growth Total U.S. Commercial (4.7 )% (4.7 )% Europe 16.1 % 7.4 23.5 Other International 13.3 (8.2 ) 5.1 Global Commercial 7.9 (.7 ) 7.2 U.S. Federal Sector 82.6 % 2.3 84.9 Corporate Total 24.3 5.6 .3 30.2 Fiscal 2003 vs. Fiscal 2002 DynCorp Acquisition Approximate Impact of Currency Fluctuations Net Internal Growth Total U.S. Commercial (10.2 )% (10.2 )% Europe 9.8 % (8.2 ) 1.6 Other International 4.5 (13.4 ) (8.9 ) Global Commercial 4.1 (10.0 ) (5.9 ) U.S. Federal Sector 5.8 % 10.7 16.5 Corporate Total 1.5 3.0 (4.8 ) (.3 ) The biggest drivers of revenue growth in fiscal 2004 were the DynCorp acquisition and the impact of currency fluctuations which contributed 24.3% and 5.6%, respectively. The remaining overall internal growth of a net .3% was the result of growth in the Global Commercial segments European region and growth in the U.S. Federal sectors defense business, offset by declines in other Global Commercial regions as well as in Federal Sectors civil business. Strong outsourcing revenue growth in Global Commercial, particularly in the United Kingdom and Europes Nordic region, was offset by reduced consulting and 15 systems integration work. The Companys announced $17.2 billion in new business awards compared with $7.7 billion and $11.4 billion announced for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. While more of the impact from the fiscal 2004 new business awards started to flow through to revenues in the latter half of the year, a greater impact should occur in fiscal 2005 as the contracts move through start up phases into full production. Comparing fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2002, declines in Global Commercial segment revenues were substantially offset by the U.S. Federal sectors growth. The sluggish global economy resulted in declining demands for project oriented work such as consulting and systems integration projects, bringing down overall Global Commercial revenues despite increases in outsourcing revenues. Global Commercial Major Global Commercial outsourcing contracts, won in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, as measured by the first 12 months per contract (over $50 million in annual revenues), accounted for approximately $684 million of the fiscal 2004 revenue growth, driven by growing European outsourcing markets and increased market share. These increases from outsourcing were more than offset by declines in consulting, systems integration and other areas, resulting in a net decline of .7% for the year on a constant currency basis. In the fiscal 2004 fourth quarter, however, the impact of the new wins coupled with stabilizing conditions for project work in the U.S. drove overall fourth quarter Global Commercial revenue up 3.8% on a constant currency basis. Declines in non U.S. project work as well as in the financial services market sector continued in the fourth quarter, however, and are expected to continue in fiscal 2005. The Company announced $9.7 billion in new Global Commercial business awards during fiscal 2004 compared with the $5.0 billion announced during fiscal 2003 and $3.6 billion announced during fiscal 2002. Primary contributors to Global Commercials European fiscal 2004 revenue growth included the following outsourcing contracts: Royal Mail Group, Bombardier Transportation, Marconi, SAS Group, ISS and National Grid Transco. These six contracts combined for $479 million of new revenue. Europe has seen growth in the outsourcing market with economic conditions driving the adoption of outsourcing to help improve business performance. By focusing on large opportunities, the Company has significantly improved its market position as highlighted by the wins noted above. Softness in demand for consulting and systems integration work, particularly in Germany, France and Italy, partially offset the outsourcing increases, resulting in an overall European revenue increase of 7.4% on a constant currency basis. The soft demand, primarily driven by continued economic sluggishness in Europe which is dampening customer discretionary spending for short term project work, is not expected to improve significantly in Europe during fiscal 2005. U.S. commercial operations benefited from growth on new and existing outsourcing contracts, including Motorola, Bombardier Transportation, General Dynamics, Dun & Bradstreet, British Telecom North America, Ascension Health and Providian, which combined for $238 million in fiscal 2004 revenue growth. Offsetting these improvements was the significantly reduced scope on the renewal of one engagement for which CSC was previously the primary outsourcing provider and is now a subcontractor, resulting in a $137 million decline. In addition, two outsourcing contracts that substantially ended in fiscal 2003 resulted in a $101 million decline year over year. The net effect of the new business and other growth, offset by the various declines, resulted in an overall decline of 4.7% for the U.S. commercial operations in fiscal 2004. The negative impact from the three contracts mentioned should not affect fiscal 2005 revenues to the same degree as in fiscal 2004, and there were no similarly significant events during fiscal 2004. In addition, the Companys U.S. consulting and systems integration business stabilized during fiscal 2004, with slight increases to headcounts and staff utilization rates, offset by slight declines in billing rates. Thus, fiscal 2005 U.S. commercial revenues are expected to exceed fiscal 2004. An 8.2% constant currency revenue decline in Other International fiscal 2004 revenues was driven by a drop in Australian outsourcing revenues plus weaker third party product sales in Australia and Asia. 16 Overall softness in these markets is expected to continue in fiscal 2005, but will be offset somewhat by a major Asian outsourcing win in fiscal 2004 with Malayan Banking Berhad. Comparing fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2002 for Global Commercial, revenue declined 10.0% in constant currency. The Companys European operations generated fiscal 2003 outsourcing revenue growth of approximately 10%, but that was more than offset by a revenue decline in consulting and systems integration services, including the financial services vertical market. Sources of outsourcing revenue growth included BAE Systems, Nortel Networks, British Nuclear Fuels Limited, and Whitbread accounts, and the impact of new business including Bombardier Transportation, United Kingdom Department of Health, and Allders. For fiscal 2003, U.S. Commercial revenue declined by 10.2%, or $439.3 million. Approximately one third of this decline was attributable to reduced demand for consulting and systems integration services. Substantially the entire consulting and systems integration decline occurred in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2003 with stabilization in demand starting to take place in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2003. The balance of the U.S. Commercial revenue decline was attributable to expiration of outsourcing contracts and client reductions in billable volumes and discretionary projects, partially offset by over $170.0 million in new outsourcing engagements. Other International revenue declined 13.4% on a constant currency basis during fiscal 2003. The decline was primarily attributable to reduced product sales and related services reflecting the economic downturn in Asian markets. U.S. Federal The Companys U.S. Federal sector revenues were derived from the following sources: Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2002 Dollars in millions(1) Amount Percent Change Amount Percent Change Amount Department of Defense $ 3,779.4 90.7 % $ 1,981.9 9.7 % $ 1,806.8 Civil agencies 2,161.1 79.7 1,202.4 22.5 981.9 Other(2) 248.1 52.1 163.1 92.8 84.6 Total U.S. Federal sector $ 6,188.6 84.9 % $ 3,347.4 16.5 % $ 2,873.3 (1) For fiscal 2004, revenue earned on government wide acquisition contracts presented based upon the end customer rather than the agency in which the contract originated. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform. (2) Other revenues consist of state and local government as well as commercial contracts performed by the U.S. Federal Sector reporting segment. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to this definition. DynCorp accounted for approximately 82.6% points of the fiscal 2004 84.9% revenue growth in the U.S. Federal sector. Excluding DynCorp, revenues from other Federal sector operations increased slightly during fiscal 2004, primarily from Department of Defense contracts, most notably missile defense, a U.S. Navy multiple awards contract, and several intelligence contracts, all of which combined for approximately $111 million in additional revenue. Offsetting this growth was reduced level of effort on a logistics contract with the Army, due to completion of the initial phase of the core project. Also, a previously consolidated joint ventures revenue no longer is reported by CSC due to a reorganization that resulted in minority ownership for CSC. These two contracts accounted for a $66 million decline for the year. Revenue from Civil agencies, excluding DynCorp, was down for the year, driven mainly by decreases on contracts with the Internal Revenue Service, Department of Education and NASA, which accounted for $57 million in reduced revenues. 17 During fiscal 2004, CSC announced federal contract awards with a total value of $7.5 billion, compared to $2.7 billion and $7.8 billion announced during fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. The fiscal 2004 awards had a minor impact on revenue growth, but are expected to make more significant contributions in fiscal 2005. The Company has identified $24 billion of Federal opportunities that will be awarded in fiscal 2005 and that the Company expects to pursue, plus an additional $12 billion over the following 23 months. The Company expects to win its proportionate share of these opportunities. Revenues from the U.S. Federal sector increased 16.5% during fiscal 2003 versus fiscal 2002. The contribution of former DynCorp operations from the date of acquisition, March 7, 2003 to March 28, 2003 accounted for $166.0 million or approximately 5.8% of U.S. Federal sectors revenue growth. The remaining revenue growth of 10.7%, or $308.1 million, is principally attributable to new and increased work related to intelligence community activities, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Prime contract, General Services Administration contracts, and an Immigration and Naturalization Service contract. Costs and Expenses The Companys costs and expenses were as follows: Dollar Amount Percentage of Revenue Dollars in millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Costs of services $ 12,006.8 $ 9,068.2 $ 9,187.2 81.3 % 79.9 % 80.7 % Selling, general and administrative 850.3 716.9 741.9 5.8 6.3 6.5 Depreciation and amortization 980.3 810.3 810.8 6.6 7.1 7.1 Interest expense, net 160.6 134.3 142.5 1.1 1.2 1.3 Special items 22.7 5.2 .2 Total $ 14,020.7 $ 10,734.9 $ 10,882.4 94.9 % 94.5 % 95.6 % Changes to the various cost and expense ratio percentages in fiscal 2004 were primarily due to the DynCorp acquisition. With generally more labor intensive operations, the acquired DynCorp business had higher costs of services (COS) as a percentage of revenue and lower ratios for selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as well as for depreciation and amortization (D&A) expense. In addition, the special items relate to the DynCorp acquisition. Excluding DynCorp operations, fiscal 2004 ratios for COS, SG&A and D&A would have been 79.0%, 6.3% and 8.1%, respectively. Fiscal 2003 ratios would have been 79.5%, 6.4%, and 7.4%, respectively, excluding the three weeks of DynCorp operations at the end of the year. The Company substantially matches revenues and costs in the same currency. Therefore, the foreign currency impact of 5.6% for the year on revenues and costs did not have a material impact on costs and expenses as a percentage of revenue. Costs of Services Costs of services as a percentage of revenue improved slightly to 79.0% in fiscal 2004 from 79.5% in fiscal 2003, when excluding the effect of the acquired DynCorp operations, which had a COS ratio of 89.9%. The improvement was driven primarily by other U.S. Federal sector operations, which posted a decrease to COS ratio of 2.7% points, partly offset by a .7% point ratio increase in Global Commercial operations. U.S. Federal sector results included adjustments from normal program reviews in fiscal 2004 and 2003 that resulted in a net year over year increase to profitability on long term contracts, as well as from the final settlement for modifications to a fixed price contract. The Global Commercial .7% point increase was from an increase in Europe, primarily Germany, France and Italy, where soft demand for consulting and systems integration project work adversely impacted the ratio. 18 For fiscal 2003, the Companys costs of services as a percentage of revenue decreased to 79.9% from 80.7%. Performance improvements in U.S. outsourcing operations contributed 1.2% points of improvement resulting from cost containment efforts, consolidation of regional and back office functions in multiple geographies, and use of less costly offshore sites. Performance improvements in U.S. Federal, U.S. consulting and systems integration, and Other International operations contributed equally to .6% points of improvement. Europe operations caused a .6% point adverse shift, primarily due to revenue shortfalls resulting from soft I/T project demand. Shifts in the mix of business towards federal operations, which carry a higher ratio of costs of services, caused an adverse movement of .4% points. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses declined .1% point to 6.3% of revenues for fiscal 2004, excluding the impact of DynCorp operations which had a 3.6% SG&A ratio in fiscal 2004. The slight change was a result of an offsetting increase in other U.S. federal operations of .7% point and decrease in Global Commercial of .3% point. Increased investment in business development activities in U.S. Federal was the primary cause for the slight increase, in addition to somewhat higher insurance and other costs. Contributing about equally to the Global Commercial ratio improvement were a reduced need for provisions for doubtful accounts and other cost improvements, the latter primarily in outsourcing operations. Provisions for doubtful accounts benefited from the Companys long term client relationships and generally high client credit quality, and a lack of charges seen over the last several years related to weakness in the high technology and telecommunications markets. For fiscal 2005, the increased volume of new business as a result of the record awards in fiscal 2004 are expected to outpace growth in SG&A expenses, thus effecting a slight improvement next year. The ..2% point fiscal 2003 SG&A reduction as compared to fiscal 2002 is attributable to a $14.2 million decrease in provision for doubtful accounts and European performance improvements of approximately $29.0 million partially offset by U.S. Commercial and Other International performance declines. The favorable impact of a shift in the Companys business mix towards the U.S. Federal sector, where SG&A costs are lower as a percentage of revenue than the Companys composite, substantially offset a decline in the U.S. Federal sectors performance in SG&A. Depreciation and Amortization Excluding the DynCorp operations, which had only a 1.0% D&A ratio, the Companys ratio increased to 8.1% of revenues versus 7.4% in the prior year. Increases at other U.S. Federal operations were a primary cause of the overall increase, and were mainly due to internal software and computer equipment additions that were made in fiscal 2004 as a result of accommodating the increased demands from the DynCorp operations. Global Commercial D&A ratios were unchanged from the prior year. The Companys fiscal 2003 D&A expense as a percentage of revenue was virtually unchanged compared to fiscal 2002. Fiscal 2002 included $77.7 million related to goodwill and employee workforce amortization which is no longer amortized as a result of the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 on March 30, 2002. An approximate .7% point improvement in depreciation and amortization as a percentage of revenue from this absence of amortization of goodwill and employee workforce acquired was offset by depreciation related to additional investments during fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 in equipment and contract costs in support of outsourcing clients. 19  Interest Expense The increase in interest expense, net of interest income, for fiscal 2004 is primarily attributable to additional borrowings, driven in part by the DynCorp acquisition. As a percentage of revenues, net interest improved slightly for fiscal 2004. The $8.2 million decrease in net interest expense for fiscal 2003 resulted from a lower average outstanding debt partially offset by a higher average interest rate and decreased interest income. Special Items CSCs net profit margin in fiscal 2004 was reduced .2% for charges associated with the Special Item related to the DynCorp acquisition. The charges relate to exit or disposal activities of legacy CSC operations as a result of an assessment of requirements for the combined CSC DynCorp organization. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further description. Charges related to this Special Item were booked in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 through the third quarter of fiscal 2004. The impact to fiscal 2003 margins was insignificant. No additional charges related to the DynCorp acquisition are expected. Taxes The provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre tax earnings before Special Items was 30.6%, 28.0%, and 30.7% for the three years ended April 2, 2004. Including Special Items in fiscal 2004 and 2003, effective rates were 30.5% and 28.0%, respectively. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2004 was primarily a result of increased profits and the decreasing impact of existing favorable permanent tax differences that do not vary directly with increased profits. The decrease of 2.7% points in the effective tax rate from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 resulted from the ceasing of goodwill and employee workforce amortization in fiscal 2003, which decreased the effective rate by approximately 3.5% points. This decrease was partially offset by the reduced relative impact of permanent tax differences. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of income taxes. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash Flows Dollars in millions Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2002 Net cash from operations $ 1,677.5 $ 1,148.2 $ 1,305.4 Net cash used in investing (1,278.4 ) (994.0 ) (1,205.7 ) Net cash used in financing (84.0 ) (20.2 ) (133.9 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (5.0 ) 16.5 (1.4 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 310.1 150.5 (35.6 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 299.6 149.1 184.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 609.7 $ 299.6 $ 149.1 Historically, the majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents have been provided from operating activities. Operating activities for fiscal 2004 generated $1.7 billion in net cash, up from $1.1 billion generated for fiscal 2003. Higher net earnings, coupled with an increase in non cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization, drove the increase in operating cash. In addition, a slightly improved year end DSO was indicative of faster collections of accounts receivable. Improved cash disbursements management also resulted in more cash on hand. Another driver was an increase in 20 deferred revenue, coming from customer prepayments for services and up front payments for contract start up and transition activities for some contracts as a result of managements focus on cash. Partially offsetting these net inflows was an increase in prepaid expenses, which was principally for software licenses and maintenance agreements that relate to services provided on some of the new outsourcing contracts. Given the new business won during fiscal 2004, primarily from Europe and U.S. outsourcing contracts, fiscal 2005 cash flow from operations is expected to increase slightly. During fiscal 2003, net cash provided from operations decreased from fiscal 2002 primarily due to a reduction in payables and accrued expenses, net of acquired DynCorp balances, partially offset by additional net earnings and a lesser increase in accounts receivable. The Companys investments principally relate to purchases of computer equipment and software, and deferred outsourcing contract costs that support the Companys expanding Global Commercial operations. Investments include computer equipment purchased at the inception of outsourcing contracts as well as for subsequent upgrades, expansion or replacement of these client supporting assets. For cash flow presentation purposes, the Outsourcing Contracts line includes amounts paid to clients for assets purchased from the clients, that are categorized as property and equipment on the balance sheet. Outsourcing contract costs are also comprised of incremental external costs as well as certain internal costs that directly relate to a contracts acquisition or start up, including payments to clients for amounts in excess of the fair market value of acquired assets (premium). Major new fiscal 2004 outsourcing contracts, Motorola, Marconi and Royal Mail Group contracts in particular, drove much of the increased investments during the year. The new fiscal 2004 outsourcing contracts, as well as contractually driven equipment refresh requirements on existing contracts, are also expected to drive fiscal 2005 investing cash outflows up slightly. Significant capital expenditures and outsourcing contract costs are expected from engagements with SAS, U.K. National Health Service, UTC, Royal Mail Group, and two U.S. Federal sector contracts (an Army aviation training contract and an intelligence services contract). Additionally, internally deployed capital asset additions are expected to increase incrementally over fiscal 2004, as part of a Company program to consolidate and upgrade data centers in order to improve operating efficiencies and ratios. Despite the anticipated investment increases, total operating cash inflows are expected to more than cover total investing outflows for fiscal 2005. The Companys investments also include acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, including significant amounts for fiscal 2003 related to the acquisition of DynCorp. While increasing new business will typically generate higher overall capital investments, the level of capital per contract has generally trended lower over the past several years on new outsourcing contracts. This has been a result of several factors, including an increased focus by the Company on improving cash flow, customer assessments of the relative costs of making the investments themselves versus having CSC do it, and a shifting mix towards contracts that are generally less capital intensive (e.g., from infrastructure technology outsourcing to applications management outsourcing engagements). The Company expects this trend to continue. As described above, historically a majority of the Companys capital investments have been funded by cash from operations. Net cash outflows from financing activities over the past three years reflect the Companys commitment to reduce its overall debt levels and improve its debt to total capitalization ratio. At year end fiscal 2004, there was no outstanding commercial paper, a result of cash generated from operations and the issuance of $300 million of new term debt. The new notes were issued at 3.50%, and are due April 15, 2008. The Company issued 15 million shares during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 to partially fund the DynCorp acquisition. In addition, the Company issued $300 million of 5.00% notes due February 15, 2013. The funds were used for general corporate purposes, including reduction of outstanding commercial paper which had increased as a result of paying off assumed DynCorp debt and the cash portion of the DynCorp consideration. During fiscal 2002, the Company issued $500 million of 6.75% notes due June 2006 and 21 $500 million of 7.375% notes due June 2011. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the reduction of outstanding commercial paper. Liquidity and Capital Resources The balance of cash and cash equivalents was $609.7 million at April 2, 2004, $299.6 million at March 28, 2003, and $149.1 million at March 29, 2002. During fiscal 2004, equity increased due to earnings, foreign currency translation adjustment ($304.7 million) and a reduction in unfunded pension obligations ($37.1 million). At the end of fiscal 2004, CSCs ratio of debt to total capitalization was 30.1%, down from 35.0% at the end of fiscal 2003 and 37.8% at the end of fiscal 2002. These debt ratio improvements were the result of debt reduction and equity increases during fiscal 2004 and equity increases during fiscal 2003. Dollars in millions 2004 2003 2002 Debt $ 2,366.6 $ 2,479.7 $ 2,204.1 Equity 5,503.7 4,606.4 3,623.6 Total capitalization $ 7,870.3 $ 7,086.1 $ 5,827.7 Debt to total capitalization 30.1 % 35.0 % 37.8 % The Companys sources of liquidity include commercial paper and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. The Company has commercial paper ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch of A 1, P 2 and F 1, respectively. Short term borrowings are principally used to supplement operating cash flow in funding working capital requirements. Forecasted positive cash flows are expected to limit the need for short term borrowings during fiscal 2005. At April 2, 2004, the Company had committed lines of credit providing $321 million of long term and $354 million of short term commercial paper backup which expire on August 18, 2005 and August 13, 2004, respectively. If the Company were unable to sell commercial paper, borrow under its uncommitted lines of credit, or determines it is too costly to do either of the aforementioned, the Company has the ability to borrow under the two committed lines of credit. These committed lines of credit are provided at a Base Rate, a Eurodollar Rate and a bid option rate. The lines require the Company to (1) limit liens placed on our assets to liens incurred in the ordinary course of business; (2) maintain a maximum consolidated total debt to consolidated total capitalization of .50 to 1.00; and (3) maintain a not to exceed consolidated total debt to consolidated Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) ratio of 2.50 to 1.00. For further details on these agreements please see Exhibits 10.26 and 10.29, which are incorporated by reference to this Annual Report. As of April 2, 2004, the Company had no borrowings under these lines and is in compliance with all terms of the agreements. At April 2, 2004, the Company had $53.0 million of short term borrowings and $2.3 billion of long term debt. As further described in Note 8 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal 2004, the classification of the Companys outstanding commercial paper is determined by the expiration dates of its credit facilities. In addition, the Company has provided foreign subsidiary debt guarantees of $489.5 million to certain foreign banks. During fiscal 2004, the Company issued $300 million of term debt from its fiscal 2002 shelf registration. The Companys term debt has ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch of A, A3 22 and A, respectively. All three credit ratings have stable outlooks. The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations by period as of April 2, 2004: Dollars in millions Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Total Long term debt $ 999.3 $ 497.5 $ 793.9 $ 2,290.7 Capital lease obligations $ 6.5 11.4 2.3 1.3 21.5 Operating leases 291.1 356.1 203.3 271.2 1,121.7 Minimum purchase obligations 604.1 1,042.9 477.7 178.2 2,302.9 Other long term liabilities .7 .4 .3 1.4 Total $ 902.4 $ 2,410.1 $ 1,181.1 $ 1,244.6 $ 5,738.2 Regarding minimum purchase obligations included above, the Company has signed long term purchase agreements with certain software, hardware, telecommunication and other service providers to obtain favorable pricing, committed service levels and terms for services that are necessary for the operations of business activities. The Company is contractually committed to purchase specified service minimums over remaining periods ranging generally from 1 to 5 years. If the Company does not meet the specified service minimums, the Company may have an obligation to pay the service provider a portion or all of the shortfall. The above table excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The Company has numerous plans, both inside and outside of the U.S., and determines expected funding requirements on a per plan basis. The minimum funding requirement can vary significantly from year to year based on a variety of factors, and can be $0 in some years. For most plans, the expected funding in fiscal 2005 is equal to the minimum that the Company is legally obligated to make, but for other plans the Company expects to fund at higher amounts based on its ability to recover the costs on cost reimbursable contracts. In fiscal 2005, the Company expects to make contributions of approximately $170 million to pension and other post retirement benefit plans. The Company has not quantified expected contributions beyond fiscal 2005 because it is not possible to predict future timing or direction of the capital markets, which can have a significant impact on future minimum funding obligations. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates section later in this MD&A and to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In the opinion of management, CSC will be able to meet its liquidity and cash needs for the foreseeable future through the combination of cash flows from operating activities, cash balances, and unused short term borrowing capacity. If these resources need to be augmented, major additional cash requirements would likely be financed by the issuance of debt and or equity securities and or the exercise of the put option as described in Note 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. During fiscal 2002, the Company filed a shelf registration statement for up to $1.5 billion of debt and or equity securities. During both fiscal 2003 and 2004, the Company issued $300 million worth of term debt from the shelf registration, leaving $900 million of shelf available for future debt and or equity issuances. Dividends and Redemption It has been the Companys policy to invest earnings in the growth of the Company rather than distribute earnings as dividends. This policy, under which dividends have not been paid since fiscal 1969, is expected to continue, but is subject to regular review by the Board of Directors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The Companys significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under "Summary of Significant Accounting 23 Policies." The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Many of the types of estimates made are for contract specific issues. While changes to estimates or assumptions on a specific contract could result in a material adjustment to the financial statements, the risk is mitigated by the Companys broad portfolio of contracts that would typically have offsetting adjustments. The Company has identified several critical accounting estimates. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both: (a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. The Companys critical accounting estimates relate to: revenue recognition and cost estimation on long term, fixed price contracts; revenue recognition on software license sales that require significant customization; capitalization of outsourcing contract costs and software development costs; assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill; assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities; and assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment. Revenue recognition and cost estimation on long term, fixed price contracts While fixed price contracts that use percentage of completion accounting currently comprise less than 10% of CSCs total revenue, the determination of revenues and costs on such contracts requires significant judgment and estimation. The method requires estimates of costs and profits over the entire term of the contract, including estimates of resources and costs necessary to complete performance. Such estimates are particularly difficult on activities involving state of the art technologies such as system development projects. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of the Companys software engineers, program managers and financial professionals. Key factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract profitability include the availability and productivity of labor, and the nature and complexity of the work to be performed. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations. Management regularly reviews project profitability and the underlying estimates. Revenue recognition on software license sales that require significant customization If significant customization is required in the delivery of a proprietary software product, revenue is recognized as the software customization services are performed in accordance with the percentage of completion method described above. Thus, cost and profit estimates are required over the life of the project, and changes in such estimates can have a material effect on results. Capitalization of outsourcing contract costs Certain costs incurred upon initiation of an outsourcing contract are deferred and expensed over the contract life. These costs consist of contract acquisition and transition/set up costs, and include the cost of due diligence activities after competitive selection, costs associated with installation of systems and processes, and amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair market value of acquired assets (premiums). Finance staff, working with program management, review costs to determine appropriateness for deferral in accordance with relevant accounting guidance. Key estimates and assumptions that the Company must make include assessing the fair value of acquired assets in order to calculate the premium and projecting future cash flows in order to assess the recoverability of deferred costs. The Company utilizes the experience and knowledge of its professional 24 staff in program management, operations, procurement and finance areas, as well as third parties on occasion, to determine fair values of assets acquired. To assess recoverability, undiscounted estimated cash flows of the contract are projected over its remaining life and compared to the unamortized deferred cost balance. Such estimates require judgment and assumptions, which are based upon the professional knowledge and experience of Company personnel. Key factors that are considered in estimating the undiscounted cash flows include projected labor costs and productivity efficiencies. A significant change in an estimate or assumption on one or more contracts could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations. Capitalization of software development costs The Company capitalizes certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products and to develop or purchase internal use software. Significant estimates and assumptions include: determining the appropriate period over which to amortize the capitalized costs based on the estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues, and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. For commercial software products, determining the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. The Company considers various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product, and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete. For internal use software, the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of the Companys ability to utilize the software on an ongoing basis. To assess the realizability or recoverability of capitalized software costs, the Company must estimate future revenue, costs and cash flows. Such estimates require assumptions about future cash inflows and outflows, and are based on the experience and knowledge of professional staff. A significant change in an estimate related to one or more software products could result in a material change to the Companys results of operations. Assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill The Company accounts for its acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. This method requires estimates to determine the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, including judgments to determine any acquired intangible assets such as customer related intangibles, as well as assessments of the fair value of existing assets such as property and equipment. Liabilities acquired can include balances for litigation and other contingency reserves established prior to or at the time of acquisition, and require judgment in ascertaining a reasonable value. Third party valuation firms may be used to appraise certain assets and liabilities, but even those determinations would be based on significant estimates provided by the Company, such as forecasted revenues or profits on contract related intangibles. Numerous factors are typically considered in the purchase accounting assessments, which are conducted by Company professionals from legal, finance, human resources, information systems, program management and other disciplines. Changes in assumptions and estimates would result in changes to the fair values, resulting in an offsetting change to the goodwill balance associated with the business acquired. As goodwill is not amortized, goodwill balances are regularly assessed for potential impairment. Such assessments require an analysis of future cash flow projections as well as a determination of an appropriate discount rate to calculate present values. Cash flow projections are based on management approved estimates, which involve the input of numerous Company professionals from finance, operations and program management. Key factors used in estimating future cash flows include assessments of labor and other direct costs on existing contracts, estimates of overhead costs and other indirect costs, and assessments of new business prospects and projected win rates. Significant changes in the estimates and assumptions used in purchase accounting and goodwill impairment testing can have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 25 Assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities The Company offers a number of pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. CSC utilizes actuarial methods required by SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions," and SFAS No. 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," to account for pension and postretirement plans, respectively. The actuarial methods require significant assumptions to calculate the net periodic pension benefit expense and the related pension benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and discount rates. In making these assumptions, we are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates. Changes in the related net periodic pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these and other assumptions. The assumption for the expected long term rate of return on plan assets is selected by taking into account the expected duration of the projected benefit obligation for each plan, the asset mix of the plan, historic plan asset returns as well as current market conditions and other factors. The weighted average of the expected long term rates of return on plan assets utilized for the fiscal 2004 pension plan valuations was 7.9% compared to 8.1% used in fiscal 2003. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half percent increase or decrease in each of the assumed rates of return on plan assets would have decreased or increased, respectively, the net periodic pension cost by approximately $9 million. The discount rate assumption reflects the market rate for high quality, fixed income debt instruments based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of the Companys pension plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year. The weighted average of the discount rates utilized for the fiscal 2004 pension plan valuations was 6.1% compared to 6.8% used for fiscal 2003. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half percent increase or decrease in each of the assumed discount rates would have decreased the net periodic pension cost by approximately $32 million or increased it by approximately $26 million, respectively. SFAS No. 87 requires recognition of a minimum pension obligation if the fair value of plan assets is less than the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) at the end of the year. At the end of both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, some of the Companys pension plans had ABOs in excess of the fair value of their respective plan assets, thus requiring additional minimum obligation. The excess at the end of fiscal 2004 was lower than at the end of fiscal 2003. This resulted in a decrease to the minimum obligation in fiscal 2004, with an offsetting decrease in intangible assets of $7.2 million and a credit to equity of $37.1 million, net of tax. Based on future plan asset performance and interest rates, additional changes to equity might be required. Assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation The Company is subject to various claims and contingencies associated with lawsuits, insurance, tax and other issues arising out of the normal course of business. The consolidated financial statements reflect the treatment of claims and contingencies based on managements view of the expected outcome. CSC consults with legal counsel on issues related to litigation and seeks input from other experts and advisors with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is probable and the amount is estimable, the Company accrues a liability in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." Significant changes in the estimates or assumptions used in assessing the likelihood of an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial results. 26  FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS All statements and assumptions contained in this annual report and in the documents attached or incorporated by reference that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent current expectations and beliefs of CSC, and no assurance can be given that the results described in such statements will be achieved. Forward looking information contained in these statements include, among other things, statements with respect to CSCs financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, business strategies, operating efficiencies or synergies, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management, and other matters. Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of CSCs control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in such statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: (i) changes in the Global Commercial demand for information technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and consulting and systems integration services; (ii) changes in U.S. federal government spending levels for information technology and other services; (iii) competitive pressures; (iv) the credit worthiness of the Companys commercial customers; (v) the Companys ability to recover its accounts receivable; (vi) the Companys ability to transition its outsourcing customers to desired solutions and recover its investments in outsourcing contracts; (vii) the Companys ability to continue to develop and expand its service offerings to address emerging business demands and technological trends; (viii) the future profitability of the Companys long term contracts with customers; (ix) the future profitability of the Companys fixed price contracts; (x) the Companys ability to consummate and integrate acquisitions and form alliances; (xi) the Companys ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; (xii) early termination of client contracts; and (xiii) general economic conditions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates in countries in which the Company does business. The Company is engaged in providing services under contracts with the U.S. Government. These contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether the Companys operations are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. U.S. Government investigations of the Company, whether related to the Companys federal government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon the Company, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracting. Forward looking statements in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of this Annual Report, and forward looking statement in documents attached or incorporated by reference speak only as to the date of those documents. CSC does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 27  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates The Company utilizes fixed rate long term debt obligations, short term commercial paper and other borrowings subject to market risk from changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to measure the impact of changes in interest rates on the value of market risk sensitive financial instruments. A hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates would not have a material impact on the Companys future earnings or cash flows. Foreign Currency During the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into certain contracts denominated in foreign currency. Potential foreign currency exposures arising from these contracts are analyzed during the contract bidding process. The Company generally manages these transactions by incurring costs to service contracts in the same currency in which revenue is received. Short term contract financing requirements are met by borrowing in the same currency. By generally matching revenues, costs and borrowings to the same currency, the Company has been able to substantially mitigate foreign currency risk to earnings. If necessary, the Company may also use foreign currency forward contracts or options to hedge exposures arising from these transactions. The Company does not foresee changing its foreign currency exposure management strategy. During fiscal 2004, 33.2% of the Companys revenue was generated outside of the United States. Using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenue by 3.32% or $490.1 million, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies would increase revenue by 3.32% or $490.1 million. In the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by expenses incurred in local currency. As a result, a hypothetical 10% movement of the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies in either direction would impact the Companys earnings before interest and taxes by $27.9 million. This amount would be offset, in part, from the impacts of local income taxes and local currency interest expense. At April 2, 2004, the Company had approximately $391.4 million of non U.S. dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents, and approximately $53.0 million of non U.S. dollar borrowings. 28   
 
