Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note: The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations has been revised for the effects of the restatement discussed in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. GENERAL The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC or the Company). The discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended March 30, 2007. There are three primary objectives of this discussion: 1) to provide a narrative explanation of the consolidated financial statements, as presented through the eyes of management; 2) to enhance the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes, providing context within which the consolidated financial statements should be analyzed; and 3) to provide information to assist the reader in ascertaining the predictive value of the reported financial results. To achieve these objectives, the discussion is presented in the following sections: Overviewincludes a brief description of the business and how it earns revenue and generates cash, as well as a discussion of the key business drivers, economic and industry factors, fiscal 2007 highlights and fiscal 2008 commentary. Results of Operationsdiscusses year over year changes to operating results for fiscal 2005 to 2007, describing the factors affecting revenue on a consolidated and reporting segment basis, including new contracts, acquisitions and currency impacts, and also by describing the factors affecting changes in the major cost and expense categories. Financial Conditiondiscusses causes of changes in cash flows and describes the Companys liquidity position and available capital resources. Critical Accounting Estimatesdiscusses accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. OVERVIEW The Companys primary service offerings are outsourcing and I/T and professional services. Outsourcing activities include operating all or a portion of a customers technology infrastructure and applications, and business process outsourcing. I/T and professional services include systems integration, consulting and other professional services and software systems sales and related services. CSC provides these services to customers in the Global Commercial and North American Public Sector markets. On a geographic basis, CSC provides services to Global Commercial customers in the United States, Europe and other international locations. Operations in Australia, Asia and Canada generate substantially all revenue within Other International. Economic and Industry Factors Global Commercial markets are affected by various economic and industry factors. The economic environment in the regions CSC serves will impact customers decisions for discretionary spending on I/T projects. CSC is in a highly competitive industry which exerts downward pressure on pricing and requires companies to continually seek ways to differentiate themselves through several factors, including service offerings and flexibility. Management monitors industry factors including relative market shares, growth rates, billing rates, staff utilization rates and margins as well as macroeconomic indicators such as interest rates, inflation rates and foreign currency rates. The North American Public Sector market is also highly competitive and has unique characteristics. All U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be modified, curtailed or terminated at the convenience of the government if program requirements or budgetary constraints change. In the event that a contract is terminated for convenience, the Company generally is reimbursed for its allowable costs through the date of termination and is paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profit or fee attributable to the work performed. Shifting priorities of the U.S. government can also impact the future of projects. The Company recognized the U.S. governments increased priorities on defense and homeland security programs and has focused business development efforts in these areas. Management monitors government priorities and industry factors through numerous industry and government publications and forecasts, legislative activity, budgeting and appropriation processes and by participating in industry professional associations. 22 Business Drivers Revenue is generated by providing services on a variety of contract vehicles lasting from less than six months to 10 years or more. Factors affecting revenue include: the Companys ability to successfully bid on and win new contract awards, the ability to satisfy existing customers and obtain add on business and win contract re competes, the ability to compete on price, services offered, technical ability, experience and flexibility, the ability to successfully identify and integrate acquisitions and leverage them to generate new revenues, the ability to successfully identify and divest non core operations which may impact revenue in the short term but provide resources to pursue longer term growth and value creation opportunities, and currency fluctuations related to international operations. Earnings are driven by the above revenue factors, in addition to the following: the ability to control costs, particularly labor costs, subcontractor expenses and overhead costs including healthcare, pension and general and administrative costs, the ability to anticipate headcount needs to avoid staff shortages or excesses, the ability to accurately estimate various factors incorporated in contract bids and proposals, and the ability to develop offshore capabilities and migrate compatible service offerings offshore. Cash flows are impacted by the above earnings factors, in addition to other factors including the following: timely management of receivables and payables, investment opportunities available, particularly related to business acquisitions and dispositions and large outsourcing contracts, and the ability to efficiently manage capital including debt and equity instruments. Key Performance Indicators The Company manages and assesses the performance of its business through various means, with the primary financial measures including new contract wins, revenue growth, margins, cash flow and return on investment. New contract winsIn addition to being a primary driver of future revenue, focusing on new contract wins also provides management an assessment of the Companys ability to compete. The total level of wins tends to fluctuate from year to year depending on the timing of new and recompeted contracts as well as numerous external factors. CSC employs stringent financial and operational reviews and discipline in the new contract process to evaluate risks and generate appropriate margins and returns from new contracts. Revenue growthYear over year revenues tend to vary less than new contract wins, and reflect performance on both new and existing contracts. With a wide array of services offered, the Company is able to pursue additional work from existing customers. In addition, incremental increases in revenue will not necessarily result in linear increases in costs, particularly overhead and other indirect costs, thus potentially improving profit margins. Foreign currency fluctuations also impact revenue growth. MarginsMargins reflect the Companys performance on contracts and ability to control costs. While the ratios of various cost elements as a percentage of revenue can shift as a result of acquisitions or dispositions of business with different cost profiles, a focus on maintaining and improving overall margins leads to improved efficiencies and profitability. Although the majority of the Companys costs are denominated in the same currency as revenues, increased use of offshore support also exposes CSC to additional margin fluctuations. Cash flowOver time the primary drivers of the Companys cash flow are earnings provided by the Companys operations and the use of capital to generate those earnings. Also contributing to short term cash flow results are movements in current asset and liability balances. The Company also regularly reviews the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) cash flow measurements of operating, investing and financing cash flows, as well as non GAAP free cash flow. 23 Return on investment (ROI)ROI is an effective indicator combining a focus on margins with efficient and productive net asset utilization. A combination of strong margins (measuring how efficiently profit is generated from revenue) and investment base turnover (measuring how effectively revenue is generated from investors capital) is required to generate sufficient returns on capital. Strong working capital management also serves to minimize investment capital and increase returns. Readers should be cautioned that Days Sales Outstanding (DSO), free cash flow and ROI are not GAAP measures, and the Companys definition of such measures may differ from other companies. Therefore, such measures may not be comparable to those of other companies. CSC thinks these non GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys performance and ability to service its debt. CSC calculates DSO as follows: Total receivables at quarter end divided by revenue per day. Revenue per day equals total revenues for the quarter divided by the number of days in the fiscal quarter. Free cash flow is equal to the sum of 1) operating cash flows, 2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions and dispositions, purchase or sale of available for sale securities and 3) capital lease payments. ROI is calculated by multiplying profit margin times investment base turnover. The profit margin used is profit before interest and special items and after tax divided by revenues. Investment base turnover equals revenues divided by average debt and equity. Fiscal 2007 Highlights Significant events during fiscal 2007 include: Revenues rose 1.5%, though declined 0.3% on a constant currency basis. The Company recorded a special pretax restructuring charge of $333.4 million ($272.4 after tax or $1.52 per share) and a special pretax gain of $18.3 million ($11.2 million after tax or 6 cents per share). Legal and other costs associated with the stock option investigation, including costs incurred to obtain debt covenant waivers and employee income taxes related to the stock option investigation were $22.3 million ($15.7 million after tax or 9 cents per share). Income from continuing operations, including the restructuring charge, was $388.8 million compared to $471.1 million for the prior year a decline of 17.5%. Continuing earnings per share, after special charges, were down 14%. The fiscal 2007 special charge of $1.46 per share, as compared to the prior year special charge of 26 cents per share, adversely impacted earnings per share from continuing operations compared to prior year by 40.3%. Announced contract awards of $16.9 billion with new North American Public Sector awards of $7.7 billion, and new Global Commercial awards totaling $9.2 billion, an increase of 40% in announced awards from the prior year. The Company entered into two accelerated share repurchase transactions during the year. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007 the Company acquired and retired 9.3 million shares of outstanding common shares for $500 million and during the second quarter the Company acquired and retired an additional 7.1 million shares for $500 million. Free cash flow of $671.5 million increased $208.6 million from $462.9 million in fiscal 2006, including $207.2 million disbursed for restructuring activities, as well as approximately $190 million deferred income recognition and delayed payments on capital expenditures the magnitude of which are not representative of the Companys ongoing cash flow trends. (1) (1) The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) financial measure: Fiscal Year Ended (in millions) March 30, 2007 March 31, 2006 April 1, 2005 Free cash flow $ 671.5 $ 462.9 $ 493.9 Net cash used in investing activities 872.7 1,124.0 595.4 Proceeds from redemption of preferred stock 126.5 Acquisition, net of cash acquired (134.3 ) (44.1 ) (20.5 ) Business dispositions 2.8 .5 819.1 Capital lease payments 39.4 8.0 6.7 Sale of available for sale securities 46.9 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,578.6 $ 1,551.3 $ 1,941.5 24 Capital lease payments and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investing activities) are included in the calculation of free cash flow. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with this presentation. DSO was 94 days at year end versus 87 days at the end of the prior year. Debt to total capitalization ratio was 20.4% at year end, an increase of 2.0% points from the prior year ratio. ROI from continuing operations was 9.6% for the year a 2.1% point improvement from prior year. The Companys significant wins during fiscal 2007 included the following: Global Commercial: United Kingdom National Health Service ($3.7 billion), Blue Scope Steel ($378 million), TDC ($330 million), and UKvisas ($275 million). North American Public Sector: U.S. Army Program Executive Office for Enterprise Information Systems ($2.0 billion), U.S. Agency for International Development ($800 million), U.S Air Force Expeditionary Combat Support System ($378 million), New York Department of Health ($276 million), and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ($243 million). These multi year awards represent the estimated value of the Companys portion at contract signing. They cannot be considered firm orders, however, due to their variable attributes, including demand driven usage, modifications in scope of work due to changing customer requirements, annual funding constraints and indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity characteristics of major portions of the Companys North American Public Sector activities. The limited revenue growth, a decline on a constant currency basis, in the Global Commercial sector and the decrease in awards during the first half of fiscal 2007 reflect, in part, the impact on the Companys ability to secure new awards as a result of the Companys evaluation of strategic initiatives during the first part of the fiscal 2007 as well as the general trend in the industry towards smaller scope and or shorter term outsourcing contracts. The majority of new awards for the Global Commercial sector, with the exception of the National Heath Service award, were awarded during the last half of the fiscal year. The North American Public Sector continued to win a share of U.S. federal government contracts as its total contract awards for fiscal 2007 increased by 30% from the previous fiscal year with contract awards from the Department of Defense continuing to lead the way. Currency shifts during fiscal 2007 favorably impacted revenue and largely offset declines in constant currency revenue in Europe. The Companys growth in prior years has created a broad, long term global revenue base across numerous customers, industries, geographic regions and service offerings with approximately 79% of CSCs revenues derived from long term contracts including Global Commercial outsourcing and U.S. federal government engagements. This revenue base provides the Company with a relatively stable base of revenue during periods when contract awards may slow or the market for certain services softens. 25 A reduction in working capital was the result of an increase in payables and deferred income which was partially offset by increases in receivables and prepaid expenses as well as an increase in cash paid for taxes and cash paid for restructuring activities. The net effect was a modest increase in cash flow from operations for fiscal 2007. The increase in deferred income, approximately $340 million, is not expected to recur at a similar amount during fiscal 2008. Cash out flow for investing activities declined from prior year as a result of lower levels of investment in outsourcing contracts and equipment. Contributing to the decline, the Company exited fiscal 2007 with capital expenditures unpaid and reflected in accounts payable of approximately $110 million in excess of usual levels of such activity. These purchases will be reported as fiscal 2008 outflows. Outflows for financing activities reflect the Companys acquisition and retirement of 16.4 million shares of outstanding common stock during fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 Commentary As a leading federal contractor and one of the top I/T service providers to the U.S. federal government, CSCs North American Public Sector is well positioned to benefit from continued demand for I/T services in this market. The U.S. federal government is one of the worlds largest I/T services consumers, and its spending is expected to continue to increase during the upcoming year in order to improve technologies in the areas of defense, homeland security and civil agency modernization. While the ultimate distribution of U.S. federal funds and project assignments can vary, the Company expects its broad I/T and outsourcing capabilities to be viewed favorably by the U.S. federal government. Global Commercial market awards during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were the highest quarterly total during the past two fiscal years. This reversed the trend of the four quarters preceding the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 which were adversely impacted by the markets response to the Companys consideration of strategic alternatives. A key success for the Company was the award of two additional regions for the implementation of a record keeping system for the United Kingdoms National Health Service. The awards for commercial engagements during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 rebounded, and the pipeline of future prospects is showing some growth. The Company has been and will continue to be selective in new business pursuit opportunities given the focus on margin expansion and increasing return on investment. With respect to discretionary spending and project work, Central and Southern Europe continue to show areas of soft demand, and demand in North America for consulting and systems integration did not show significant improvement, while price pressures continue. While the future demand for outsourcing services is not known with certainty, the long term nature of major outsourcing engagements allows CSC to benefit from a certain level of continuity. Growth during fiscal 2008 in Global Commercial revenue from new business awarded during fiscal 2007 is expected to be tempered by the continued demand for offshore services and the resulting pressure on prices. During fiscal 2007, the Companys Global Commercial segments revenue was favorably impacted by currency fluctuations in Europe and Other International regions. The Company cannot forecast with certainty future movement in currency exchange rates or its impact on operating results. Other trends the Company expects for fiscal 2008 are as follows: Revenue for the North American Public Sector for fiscal 2008 will benefit from its $9.2 billion of announced awards. This represents a $2.2 billion increase in awards during fiscal 2007. The North American Public Sector is expected to continue to grow at or above the revenue growth rate for fiscal 2007. The Company expects Global Commercial revenue growth to be tempered by the previous softness in new contract awards during the later part of fiscal 2006 and first half of fiscal 2007. In addition, adjustments of billing rates to industry benchmarks for certain significant outsourcing contracts awarded during fiscal 2005 and 2006, as these contracts mature, may also temper revenue growth for the Global Commercial segment. The demand for offshore services is expected to continue to increase as customers seek to lower costs and will present opportunity as well as temper revenue growth in Europe as well as the U.S. Commercial market. The Company has identified and expects to pursue $29.4 billion of federal opportunities that will be awarded in fiscal 2008, plus an additional $17.3 billion during fiscal 2009. The Company expects to win a share of these awards. 26 Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2008 is expected to decrease slightly from the $1,578.6 million for fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 operating cash flow is expected to be adversely impacted by a decline in deferred income. Cash outflow from investing activities is expected to increase from fiscal 2007 levels primarily as a result of investment in computers and related equipment in the U.S. Commercial and North American Public Sector and for capital assets acquired in fiscal 2007 but paid for during fiscal 2008. The Companys overall short term financial objectives include: 1. Successfully launch the new contracts won during fiscal 2007. 2. Manage ongoing engagements to maximize revenue and margins. 3. Successfully close and integrate the acquisition of Covansys Corporation. 4. Effectively manage working capital and capital investment. 5. Maintain appropriate investment base turnover rates and operating margins, with particular emphasis on the new business, in order to improve return on investment. 6. Pursue the current pipeline of commercial and North American Public Sector opportunities and win a proportionate share. 7. Continue execution of the restructuring plan begun in fiscal 2007. The Company has recently defined and begun implementing a comprehensive growth strategy. This strategy is based upon a detailed assessment of the market place as well as input from current and potential customers. To implement the strategy, the Company launched Project Accelerate, which is comprised of five (5) key growth initiatives. The five growth initiatives and the benefits the Company believes Project Accelerate offers to its key stakeholders are: Focus on enhancing industry specific offerings and value proposition to clients. The Company is investing significantly to offer differentiated business solutions that combine technology, intellectual property, and industry expertise to improve its clients business results. The Company is focused on developing high value, technology enabled business solutions, consulting services, and business process outsourcing offerings for the following key verticals: Financial Services; Healthcare; Manufacturing, including Aerospace & Defense; Public Sector; Chemical, Energy & National Resources; and Technology/Consumer. Focus on aggressively growing and leveraging its India capabilities. The Company has launched an India Direct Sales channel to address customers needs for pure offshore services and to compete directly against low cost, offshore IT providers. The Company has been making and will continue to make investments to build out its India delivery capabilities for remote infrastructure management, application services, and business process offerings. Its pursuit and pending acquisition of Covansys Corporation signifies the Companys commitment to expanding offshore selling and delivery capabilities in India. When this acquisition closes, the Company will have more than 14,000 employees in India, and India will be its second largest country of employment. Focus on further expanding its global footprint. The Company currently operates in more than 55 countries and serves some of the worlds largest global companies. It delivers to the world from around the world. Consequently, the Company is continuing its commitment to world sourcing as an important value component of its global delivery model. It will continue to offer clients the mix of on shore, near shore and offshore services most appropriate to their needs. The Company is particularly focused on expanding capabilities in Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, in addition to India. Focus on commercial outsourcing and further strengthen the Companys ability to deliver the services its clients require consistently and seamlessly across their global enterprise. Also, the Company is investing to win a higher share of mid size deals those having total contract values between $50 and $350 million by launching a dedicated sales team and enhancing delivery capabilities to address this large and growing market segment. 27 Focus on the North American Public Sector market. The Company will build on an established market position by enhancing its offerings to core markets and investing in selected higher growth sub segments such as identity management and credentialing, health services, and logistics and transportation. Additionally, the Company will look to expand the work it does for the public sector in Canada and to build upon its success with the U.S. federal government in the pursuit of selected state and local growth opportunities. These five initiatives will be supported by a disciplined acquisition strategy. This acquisition approach is focused on vertical markets and core delivery capabilities, directed towards higher growth and margin businesses and strictly aligned with the priorities of Project Accelerate. This strategy is global in scope and focused on proactively addressing the needs of the Companys markets and clients. The Company believes Project Accelerate has attractive benefits for all its key stakeholders. For clients, the strategy will help us continue to evolve to meet their needs and drive improved business value to them. For employees, the strategy is designed to provide exciting professional growth opportunities globally. For shareholders, the strategy will help us provide a more clear vision and roadmap going forward, which will target revenue growth and the cash flows and ROI required to enhance overall shareholder returns. This strategy is designed to balance our portfolio across public sector, business solutions, and outsourcing services offerings over time. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues Revenues for the Global Commercial and North American Public Sector segments (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements) for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are as follows: Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 Amount Percent Change Amount Percent Change Amount As Restated As Restated U.S. Commercial $ 3,872.9 (4.3 )% $ 4,047.7 5.1 % $ 3,851.1 Europe 4,146.3 (.7 ) 4,176.8 (3.4 ) 4,325.7 Other International 1,487.1 9.3 1,360.5 10.9 1,227.3 Global Commercial sector 9,506.3 (.8 ) 9,585.0 1.9 9,404.1 North American Public sector 5,350.3 5.9 5,054.0 8.1 4,675.9 Corporate Total $ 14,856.6 1.5 $ 14,639.0 4.0 $ 14,080.0 The major factors affecting the percent change in revenues are presented as follows: Fiscal 2007 vs. Fiscal 2006 Approximate Impact of Currency Fluctuations Net Internal Growth Total U.S. Commercial (4.3 )% (4.3 )% Europe 5.2 % (5.9 ) (.7 ) Other International 3.3 6.0 9.3 Global Commercial sector 2.7 (3.5 ) (.8 ) North American Public sector 5.9 5.9 Corporate Total 1.8 (.3 ) 1.5 28 Fiscal 2006 vs. Fiscal 2005 Approximate Impact of Currency Fluctuations Net Internal Growth Total U.S. Commercial 5.1 % 5.1 % Europe (3.5 )% .1 (3.4 ) Other International 2.5 8.4 10.9 Global Commercial sector (1.3 ) 3.2 1.9 North American Public sector 8.1 8.1 Corporate Total (.8 ) 4.8 4.0 Fiscal 2007 revenue growth from Department of Defense contracts in the North American Public Sector and growth in Other International operations helped offset the impact of 1) terminated commercial contracts with Nortel Networks and Sears, 2) the impact of a decline in commercial awards during fiscal 2006 and early 2007 in U.S. Commercial and Europe operations and 3) reduced scope on an intelligence agency program. The decline in Global Commercial revenue for fiscal 2007 of 0.8% (a decline of 3.5% in constant currency) was the result of terminated engagements in U.S. Commercial operations and reductions in scope on a number of contracts in Europe offset by growth in our Australian and Asia operations. Other International operations benefited from growth on existing business as a result of successful recompete efforts on contracts in Australia and additional project work on contracts in Asia. The North American Public Sector revenue growth benefited from growth on existing programs, contracts awarded during fiscal 2007 and from the acquisition, in the third quarter, of an identity management and credentialing business. These positive factors offset the effects of programs with reduced scopes as noted above. Fiscal 2006 revenue growth from significant new commercial engagements and Federal programs offset the impact of 1) terminated commercial contracts with Nortel Networks and JPMorgan Chase, 2) revised billing rates for extended contracts, 3) reduced scope on certain Federal programs and 4) wind down of the development phase on a significant government project. Global Commercial growth for fiscal 2006 of 1.9% (3.2% in constant currency) was led by U.S. Commercial operations where new outsourcing engagements, growth on existing outsourcing engagements and growth in the U.S. consulting and systems integration business offset terminated engagements and lower billing rates on extended engagements. Other International operations benefited from growth on existing business. Europe operations, in constant currency, were unchanged from the prior year. The U.S. Federal sector revenue growth benefited from contracts awarded during fiscal 2006 and 2005 and from growth on existing programs offsetting the effects of programs with reduced scopes as noted above. Global Commercial Revenue from Global Commercial declined in fiscal 2007 compared to the prior year with revenue 0.8% below prior year and on a constant currency basis 3.5% below prior year. Declines in new contract awards during fiscal 2006 and the early 2007, the termination of certain U.S. Commercial contracts, declines in revenue from mature contracts in Europe and continued soft demand for consulting and systems integration offerings were partially offset by growth in Australia and Asia. U.S. Commercial revenues decreased $175 million for fiscal 2007, or 4.3%. The decline was primarily the result of the termination of the Sears, Roebuck & Co and Nortel Networks contracts, which combined contributed an additional $205 million of revenue in the prior year. These declines were partially offset by revenue growth on existing outsourcing contracts. Revenue in the consulting and systems integration business was unchanged from the prior year as the increase in demand for these services in the prior year did not carry forward into fiscal 2007. No significant new contracts contributed to growth in U.S. Commercial business for fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2007 Europe revenues decreased $31 million or 0.7% and on a constant currency basis decreased $246 million or 5.9% from the prior year. Growth from outsourcing and I/T and professional services engagements with U.K. National Health Service and Public Sector Scandinavia combined for $58 million in revenue growth and favorable currency effects, which contributed $214 million, were offset by revenue declines as a result of reductions in the scope of work for certain outsourcing engagements of $155 million in Northern Europe, the termination of the Nortel Networks contract, a decline in software license sales and continued softness in demand for the Companys consulting and systems integration services in Germany and Italy. 29 Other International revenues increased $127 million or 9.3%, 6.0% in constant currency, during fiscal 2007. Australian operations contributed $84 million of revenue growth attributable to a professional staffing business, a major outsourcing contract and success in winning a number of recompete contracts during fiscal 2007. This growth was offset somewhat by the expiration of a government contract. Asia contributed $59 million in revenue growth attributable to additional work on various outsourcing engagements. This growth was offset somewhat by a decline in revenue from Canada operations, primarily as a result of the termination of the Nortel Networks contract. During fiscal 2006 revenue from Global Commercial grew 1.9% or 3.2% in constant currency. New major engagements contributed approximately $483 million to Global Commercials revenue growth for fiscal 2006. These engagements, although primarily for outsourcing services, include other I/T and professional services as well. Revenue from existing engagements declined for fiscal 2006 as growth in U.S. consulting and systems integration services and in Other International was offset by lower billing rates on a contract extension, reduced volume on certain contracts, the termination and wind down of certain contracts such as Nortel Networks, Sears, and JPMorgan Chase and a decline in software license sales. U.S. Commercial revenues increased $197 million for fiscal 2006, or 5.1%. The growth was primarily from outsourcing contracts awarded during fiscal 2005 and growth in the consulting and systems integration business. New contracts contributing to the growth were Sun, Ascension Health, Textron and Aon which when combined, contributed $279 million to revenue growth for fiscal 2006. This revenue growth and the contribution from U.S. consulting and systems integration were partially offset by reduced volumes and billing rates on certain significant outsourcing contracts and the termination of significant outsourcing contracts with Nortel Networks and JPMorgan Chase. The Companys contract with Sears, Roebuck & Co. for outsourcing services, which was terminated during fiscal 2006, provided $131 million of revenue during fiscal 2006. Other International revenues increased $133 million or 10.9%, 8.4% in constant currency, during fiscal 2006. Australian operations contributed $62 million of revenue growth attributable to a professional staffing business and a major outsourcing contract, offset somewhat by the termination of an outsourcing contract. Asia contributed $50 million in revenue growth attributable to various outsourcing engagements. During fiscal 2006 Europe revenues decreased $149 million or 3.4% though were essentially unchanged on a constant currency basis. Growth from new outsourcing and I/T and professional services engagements with U.K. National Health Service, Zurich Financial Services and Renault of $184 million was offset by unfavorable currency movements of approximately $152 million, reduced scope of work on certain outsourcing engagements, reduced billing rates on a contract extension, a decline in software license sales and continued softness in demand for the Companys consulting and systems integration services in Germany and Italy. North American Public Sector The Companys North American Public sector revenues were derived from the following sources: Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 Dollars in millions Amount Percent Change Amount Percent Change Amount Department of Defense $ 3,593.8 6.7 % $ 3,368.9 15.8 % $ 2,909.8 Civil agencies 1,600.1 3.6 1,544.3 (4.3 ) 1,612.9 Other (1) 156.4 11.1 140.8 (8.1 ) 153.2 Total North American Public Sector $ 5,350.3 5.9 $ 5,054.0 8.1 $ 4,675.9 (1) Other revenues consist of foreign, state and local government work as well as commercial contracts performed by the North American Public sector segment. 30 North American Public Sector revenue growth for fiscal 2007 was 5.9% with revenue up $296 million to $5,350.3 million. The revenue growth was the result of new business awarded during fiscal 2007 and 2006, increases on existing Department of Defense contracts and the acquisition in the third quarter of an identity management and credentialing business. This growth was partially offset by reductions in funding for one other significant program as funds were redirected to other Department of Defense programs. The North American Public Sector continued to win significant new business during fiscal 2007 with announced new U.S. federal contract awards of $9.2 billion versus $7.1 billion for fiscal 2006 and $7.0 billion for fiscal 2005. Department of Defense revenue increased $225 million or 6.7% to $3,593.8 million for fiscal 2007. Growth was the result of increased demand for equipment procurement and installation services for the U.S. Army, a program to provide engineering support services to the U.S. Armys Aviation and Missile Command, an increase in scope for a program to provide mission support services, a new program to provide engineering logistics and business operations services to the U.S. Army, management services for certain intelligence services, a program to provide flight simulation services to the U.S. Army and the acquisition of an identity management and credentialing business in the third quarter. These new programs, tasking and acquisition provided approximately $292 million in revenue growth for fiscal 2007. This growth was partially offset by funding shortfalls on an intelligence services program as funds were redirected to other programs and revenue declined $70 million on this program. Civil agencies revenue increased $56 million or 3.6% versus fiscal 2006, as a result of increased activity on a contract with the Federal Aviation Administration, and I/T engineering and management services contract with the EPA as well as growth in consulting services provided to various agencies. Work performed by the North American Public Sector for state and local governments as well as commercial clients was $156 million for fiscal 2007, an increase of $16 million from the prior year. This increase was the result of achievement of milestones on a project with a foreign government to provide information technology services. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in revenue on a contract with the New York Department of Health where the contract evolved from system development to run and maintain and system enhancement work. For fiscal 2006 North American Public Sector revenue growth was 8.1% with revenue up $378 million to $5,054 million. The revenue growth was driven by new business awarded during fiscal 2006 and 2005 and increases on existing Department of Defense contracts. This growth was partially offset by the completion of the development phase on a state contract and reduced scope on a small number of significant programs. The North American Public Sector continued to win significant new business during fiscal 2006 with announced new U.S. federal contract awards of $7.1 billion versus $7.0 billion for fiscal 2005 and $5.0 billion for fiscal 2004. Department of Defense revenue increased $459 million or 15.8% to $3,369 million for fiscal 2006. Growth was the result of increased demand for equipment procurement and installation services for the U.S. Army, a new program to provide aviation support services, new tasking on programs to provide logistical support to the U.S. Army, new tasking to provide technical support for the Navys undersea test facilities, a multiple award contract to provide professional services to Naval Sea Systems Command, a new program to provide support services for the U.S. Strategic Command and I/T engineering and management services for certain intelligence services. These new programs and tasking provided approximately $297 million in revenue growth for fiscal 2006. The remainder of the revenue increase during fiscal 2006 was the result of normal contract activities including new tasking on various projects and various new programs. For fiscal 2006 Civil agencies revenue was down $69 million or 4.3% versus fiscal 2005, driven by the reduction in scope for a significant project with the Internal Revenue Service. The impact of the scope reduction on this project was approximately $72 million. New tasking on projects for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) offset scope reductions and the completion of other programs. Work performed by the North American Public Sector for state and local governments as well as commercial clients was $141 million for fiscal 2006, down $12 million. The decrease was the result, primarily, of a reduction of effort on a contract with the New York Department of Health. This was offset somewhat by a project with a foreign government to provide information technology services. 31 Costs and Expenses The Companys costs and expenses were as follows: Dollar Amount Percentage of Revenue 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 As Restated As Restated Costs of services (excludes depreciation and amortization) $ 11,817.8 $ 11,724.0 $ 11,320.1 79.5 % 80.1 % 80.4 % Selling, general and administrative 916.4 862.5 856.7 6.2 5.9 6.1 Depreciation and amortization 1,073.6 1,091.8 1,051.0 7.2 7.5 7.5 Interest expense, net 125.7 80.1 143.3 .8 .5 1.0 Special items 316.1 77.3 28.6 2.1 .5 .2 Total $ 14,249.6 $ 13,835.7 $ 13,399.7 95.9 % 94.5 % 95.2 % The Company substantially matches revenues and costs in the same currency. Therefore, foreign currency did not have a material impact on costs and expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, the Company is increasing its use of offshore support and therefore may be exposed to additional margin fluctuations. Costs and expenses as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2007 increased 1.4% points to 95.9% from 94.5% for fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of costs incurred from restructuring activities which contributed 2.4% to the total cost ratio. The cost of services ratio decreased as a result of restructuring activities during fiscal 2007 and cost management while the depreciation and amortization ratio decreased as a result of the termination of the Nortel Networks and Sears contracts both of which were capital intensive contracts. The selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense ratio increased as a result of 1) professional fees and employee taxes to be paid by the Company as a result of the stock option investigation, and 2) the SG&A portion of additional compensation expense incurred as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R during fiscal 2007. The interest expense ratio increased as a result of financing a repurchase of shares with commercial paper, an increase in interest expense related to income taxes and an increase in assets under capital leases. Costs and expenses as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2006 improved .7% points to 94.5% from 95.2% for fiscal 2005 with most ratios improved or unchanged from the prior year. The cost of services ratio decreased as a result of cost management and certain revenue settlements for which the associated costs were recorded in a prior period. The interest expense ratio decreased primarily as the result of the retirement of $1 billion of term debt during March 2005. These decreases were offset by the impairment charge and loss on sale of equipment due to the termination of portions of the Nortel Networks contract recorded as a special item in fiscal 2006. Costs of Services Costs of services as a percentage of revenue decreased .6% points to 79.5% for fiscal 2007 as a result of a decrease in the Global Commercial ratio of 1.2% points to 75.7% and a .1% point decrease in the North American Public Sector ratio to 86.2%. Improvements in the cost of services ratio for the Global Commercial segment were primarily in the outsourcing business in the United States and Asia, as a result of cost savings initiatives, restructuring activities and the termination of low margin contracts. The Global Commercial cost of services ratio for fiscal 2007 benefited from reductions in the ratio in U.S. Commercial operations, where the ratio improved 2.1% points as a result of cost savings initiatives during the past year, the transfer of certain tasks to lower cost regions for certain contracts, and the termination of low margin contracts. The ratio for Other International operations improved 1.6% points as Asia benefited from restructuring activities. These improvements in the cost of services ratio for Other International were partially offset by significant revenue growth from a low margin professional staffing business in Australia. Europe, where the ratio decreased .7% points, benefited from reductions in the cost of services ratio as a result of the transfer of certain tasks to lower cost regions, the impact of restructuring activities on the ratio in the consulting and systems integration activities and a reduction in management bonuses. These reductions in expense were somewhat offset by higher costs on certain outsourcing engagements. 32 The North American Public Sector ratio for fiscal 2007 benefited from the impact of an adverse estimate to complete incurred on a state project in the prior year and a revenue increase on this contract during the current year as a result of the client extending the contract. These changes combined for .4% points favorable impact to the ratio for fiscal 2007. This favorable impact was partially offset by an adverse cost incurred for contracts with the IRS of .2% points during fiscal 2007. These changes, combined, had a .1% point favorable impact on the overall cost of services ratio. Costs of services as a percentage of revenue decreased .3% points to 80.1% for fiscal 2006 as a result of a decrease in the Global Commercial ratio of .2% points to 76.9% and a .4% points decrease in the North American Public Sector ratio to 86.3%. The ratio for fiscal 2006 benefited, as noted below, from cost of services amounts carried at the Corporate level for fiscal 2005 which included $24 million of accrued cost related to the settlement of an overtime pay class action lawsuit. The Global Commercial cost of services ratio for fiscal 2006 benefited from reductions in the ratio in Europe as a result of outsourcing improvements in the United Kingdom offset somewhat by higher ratios for other European consulting and systems integration business. These improvements in Europe were offset by a higher ratio for U.S. outsourcing as a result of start up and termination activities and an unfavorable mix impact as revenue from higher margin software license sales was lower for the year. The costs of services ratio benefited from certain revenue items such as revenue settlements with clients for which the related costs were recognized in a prior period, a pre tax $8 million gain from the sale of a building and the novation of certain contracts. These items favorably benefited the ratio approximately .2% points. The North American Public Sector ratio for fiscal 2006 benefited from increased margins for certain time and materials contracts on subcontractor work and materials and cost containment on a fixed unit price contract. The year over year comparison also benefited .2% points from unfavorable adjustments during fiscal 2005 on certain programs for which recovery of costs was not probable. These factors were somewhat offset by an adverse estimate to complete incurred on a state project impacting the ratio by approximately (.1%) point. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of revenue increased .3% points to 6.2% for fiscal 2007 primarily as a result of additional compensation expense due to the incremental impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the legal expenses related to the investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice into the Companys stock option granting practices. These items had a .3% point net unfavorable impact on the expense ratio for fiscal 2007. The pretax incremental stock option expense recorded in SG&A as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) was approximately $14.2 million ($10.0 million net of taxes) and the pre tax legal and related expenses related to the stock option investigation, including employee taxes to be paid by the company, were approximately $22.3 million ($15.7 million net of tax). The comparison of the fiscal 2007 ratio to the prior year ratio benefited from a one time adverse impact to the prior year ratio for a provision for doubtful accounts, as noted below, which had a .1% point impact on the expense ratio for fiscal 2006. The allocation of the SFAS No. 123(R) and legal expenses, noted above, for fiscal 2007 resulted in an increase in the North American Public Sector expense ratio of .5% points and an increase in the Global Commercial ratio of .2% points. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses of 5.9% as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2006 decreased .2% points from the prior year primarily as a result of a decrease in income tax penalties as compared to prior year of approximately $40 million partially offset by additional compensation expense of $16.4 million (approximately $12.1 million net of taxes). The decrease in the ratio was the result of a decrease in the ratio for the corporate segment as a result of the decrease in tax penalties partially offset by an increase in the ratio for the North American Public Sector of .5% points. The North American Public Sector ratio increase was attributable to increased expenses in the new business development area and increased management and bid and proposal costs. The Global commercial ratio was essentially flat to the prior year as improvements in the ratio from savings in new business selling costs due to fewer significant new business opportunities and a reduction in general and administrative costs was offset by the increase in compensation costs as a result of the restatement noted above and the adverse impact of a pre tax $18 million provision for doubtful accounts related to negotiations with an outsourcing customer regarding certain contract provisions. 33 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense as a percentage of revenue decreased .3% points to 7.2% during fiscal 2007. The expense ratio improved in both the North American Public Sector and in Global Commercial. The decrease in the expense ratio was the result of revenue growth and a decline in depreciation and amortization expense to $1,073.6 million for fiscal 2007. This decline was the result of an approximately $20 million decrease in depreciation expense for fiscal 2007 due primarily to the termination and disposal of the related assets for the Sears contract and a shift in the mix of the assets in Australia toward longer lived assets. The North American Public Sector ratio decreased by .2% points as depreciation and amortization expense was held flat and revenue increased by 5.9%. The Global Commercial ratio decreased .2% point due to the reduction in expense noted above while revenues were essentially flat to the prior year. Depreciation and amortization expense of $1,091.8 million for fiscal 2006 represents 7.5% of revenue and was unchanged from the ratio of 7.5% for fiscal 2005. Improvement in the North American Public Sector ratio was offset by an increase in the Global Commercial ratio. The North American Public Sector ratio decreased by .1% point predominantly due to decreases in amortization of certain intangibles acquired in the Dyncorp acquisition. The Global Commercial ratio increased as a result of significant upfront capital investment for outsourcing contracts awarded during fiscal 2005 and 2004 in Europe and Asia and capital refreshes necessary on some existing contracts, offset by lower levels of capital investment for U.S. commercial operations due to the termination of the Nortel and Sears contracts and a favorable mix variance from Australian operations due to revenue growth in non capital intensive business lines. Interest Expense and Interest Income The increase in interest expense for fiscal 2007 of $54.3 was the result, primarily, of three factors: 1) the use of commercial paper to finance the accelerated share repurchase transactions (see Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) which increased interest from commercial paper by $19.7 million for fiscal 2007, 2) an increase in equipment under capital leases, particularly in the North American Public Sector, resulted in an increase in interest expense of $13.0 million, and 3) interest accrued related to income taxes and income tax contingency items of $18.7 million (see Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest income increased approximately $8.7 million for fiscal 2007 as a result of an increase in interest income from tax refund items, interest income from a partnership and interest on cash balances in Asia and Canada. These increases offset the loss of dividend income from the DynCorp International 13% preferred stock which was redeemed during the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The result of the increase in interest expense and interest income was an increase in net interest expense of $34 million and an increase in the interest expense ratio of .2% points. The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was due to lower average debt levels during fiscal 2006 as the result of the retirement of $1 billion of term debt during March 2005. The interest savings from the retirement of the term debt was somewhat offset by an increase in interest expense for income taxes, capitalized leases and short term borrowings for working capital needs in Europe. The combination of these factors resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $38.5 million. In addition, interest income, including dividend income from the DynCorp International 13% preferred stock, increased approximately $24.7 million for fiscal 2006 resulting in a .6% improvement in the net interest expense ratio. During May 2006, the Company received approximately $169 million from DynCorp International for the redemption of the preferred stock and payment of cumulative dividends of approximately $22.5 million. Special Items Special items totaling $316.1 million were recorded during the year ended March 30, 2007, and consisted of: (1) a $333.4 million restructuring charge (see discussion below), (2) a $1.0 million true up of an estimate related to the fiscal 2006 Nortel impairment charge and (3) an $18.3 million gain from the redemption of DynCorp International preferred stock. Restructuring In April 2006, the Company announced a restructuring plan to be carried out during fiscal 2007 and 2008. The objectives of the plan are to 1) streamline CSCs worldwide operations and 2) leverage the increased use of lower cost global resources. Restructuring charges consist predominantly of severance and related employee payments resulting from terminations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007 the Company evaluated facility consolidation opportunities and other areas where operations can be streamlined and costs reduced consistent with the plan objectives, resulting in additional lease termination, asset impairment and other charges. 34 Workforce reductions of approximately 4,400 employees occurred in fiscal 2007, and an additional 1,100 reductions are planned for fiscal 2008. Termination related charges of $294.3 million were recorded in fiscal 2007. Other, primarily vacant space related costs, of $39.1 million were also recorded during the year, net of an $11.6 million gain on the sale of a data center facility. All but approximately $.1 million of the restructuring charge was incurred in the Global Commercial reporting segment. Additional restructuring charges of not more than $110 million are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2008. The restructuring plan generated savings of approximately $180 million in fiscal 2007 and is expected to result in savings of $340 million in fiscal 2008. Approximately 97% of the savings comes from reduced cost of services, while the remainder will be predominantly from lower selling, general and administrative costs. Savings are net of new or increased recurring costs, primarily the costs anticipated for an increasing offshore workforce. Savings will also be impacted by certain transitional costs as new offshore staff are trained while outgoing staff are still on the payrolls. Such transitional costs were under $10 million in fiscal 2007 and expected to be under $2 million in fiscal 2008. A majority of the planned headcount reductions (3,000 in fiscal 2007 and 500 in 2008) were scheduled to take place in Europe. Approximately 1,100 and 500 positions were to be reduced in North America in fiscal 2007 and 2008, respectively, with the balance in Australia and Asia. Partially offsetting the reductions were planned headcount increases in certain lower cost regions of approximately 1,400 and 700 employees in fiscal 2007 and 2008, respectively. As of March 30, 2007, approximately 4,400 separations have been completed (approximately one sixth due to attrition), with 3,000 in Europe, 1,100 in North America and the remainder in Australia and Asia. Approximately 2,100 new hires occurred in lower cost regions during the full year ended March 30, 2007, including replacements of some of the 4,400 reductions as well as for previously planned and on going business activities. The Companys strategy in Europe has been to obtain negotiated, voluntary terminations to the extent possible, but involuntary terminations were also necessary in certain countries to attain targeted reductions. Outside of Europe, terminations have been predominantly involuntary. Involuntary termination benefits are determined in accordance with existing company policies and local legal requirements. In some countries, local regulations require the Company to consult with employee representatives such as works councils or unions in the determination of job categories and number of employees to be terminated, as well as the resulting termination benefit amounts. The amounts of termination benefits are typically attributable to employees services already rendered and increase as length of service increases. The Company records charges for negotiated, voluntary terminations at the time an employee accepts the Companys offer. Involuntary termination benefits are accrued at the time such obligations are considered probable and reasonably estimable. Such a calculation is based on estimates of benefit payouts as well as number and type of staff to be terminated. In cases where a plan calls for first attempting to garner voluntary terminations and then moves to involuntary terminations if targeted reductions are not achieved, a charge is accrued based on estimated involuntary benefits for all remaining reductions. Accruals for future termination benefits are based on a number of assumptions and estimates. Such accruals may differ from actual results for a variety of reasons, including: different benefit amounts or mix of employees as a result of completed employee representative consultations; additional voluntary terminations in lieu of accrued involuntary terminations; changes in mix of actual terminated employees by age, years of service, or job class. Restructuring related pre tax cash payments of approximately $207.2 million were made in fiscal 2007 (excluding $25.8 million cash proceeds received from sale of a data center) and are estimated to be approximately $195 million for fiscal 2008. Included in the restructuring charge are pension benefit augmentations that are due to certain employees in accordance with legal or contractual obligations, which will be paid out over several years as part of normal pension distributions. Such liabilities are included in the consolidated pension liability account. 35 See the following table for a summary of fiscal 2007 activity (in millions): Total pre tax charges recorded year to date fiscal 2007 Less charges not affecting restructuring liability (1) Less Payments (2) Other (3) Restructuring liability as of March 30, 2007 Workforce reductions $ 294.3 $ (6.8 ) $ (201.7 ) $ 7.7 $ 93.5 Other 39.1 6.3 (5.5 ) 1.0 40.9 Total $ 333.4 $ (0.5 ) $ (207.2 ) $ 8.7 $ 134.4 (1) Charges primarily consist of pension benefit augmentations offset by gains on sale of a data center facility. (2) Excludes $25.8 million cash proceeds received from sale of a data center facility. (3) Foreign currency translation adjustments. During fiscal 2006 Nortel Networks (Nortel) terminated the Companys services for certain information technology outsourcing activities under the outsourcing agreement between Nortel and the Company. As a result of the termination of these services the Company recorded a non cash special charge of $52.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 to write down outsourcing contract costs and certain equipment associated with the contract to their estimated fair value. The Company recorded an additional charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 of $25.3 million to write down the remaining assets to fair value, recognize a loss on the assets sold to Nortel under the terms of the termination settlement, record severance costs for those employees who were not hired by Nortel or redeployed within the Company and record costs associated with terminating the contract for a total charge of $77.3 million ($48.3 million after tax) or 26 cents per share. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 the Company recorded a charge of $29.5 million for premium payments and the write down of deferred financing costs and interest discount related to the early redemption of $1 billion of term debt. The Company elected to make this early redemption and incur the charges as it had available cash and these debt issues carried interest rates above current prevailing rates. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further description. The debt redemption charge was partially offset by the reversal in the fourth quarter of previously recorded facility restructuring accruals of $.9 million. The combined special items had a $0.10 per share impact on earnings per share and a .2% net impact on the Companys profit margin in fiscal 2005. Taxes The provision for taxes on continuing operations as a percentage of pre tax earnings was 35.9%, 41.4% and 34.7% for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate during fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was the result of lower state tax and additional credits in fiscal 2007, partially offset by higher foreign effective tax rates. The Companys income tax expense for fiscal 2007 includes a reduction for a change in estimate in the amount of approximately $24 million of research and development credits available to be claimed by the Company for years prior to fiscal 2007. As a result of these factors, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 declined 5.5% percentage points from fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2006 income tax expense compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily the result a reduction in tax contingency recorded in fiscal 2005 which did not recur in fiscal 2006. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of income taxes. 36 Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations net of taxes was $61.3 million and $313.8 million, respectively, for fiscal years 2006 and 2005. Income from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006 included the gain on sale of Health Plan Solutions of $22.9 million and the gain from the working capital adjustment for the sale of DynCorp International of $38.4 million. The Company received $65.5 million par value preferred stock for the working capital adjustment and recorded taxes of $20.7 million and a valuation allowance of approximately $6.5 million against the preferred stock. Income from discontinued operations during fiscal 2005 includes the net after tax gain on the sale of DynCorp International of $228.8 million or approximately $1.19 per share. In fiscal 2005, proceeds from the sale included $775 million of cash and $75 million of par value preferred stock. Discontinued operations for fiscal 2005 included the operations of DynCorp International, sold during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and the operations of Health Plan Solutions which was classified as held for sale as of April 1, 2005 and sold during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. During fiscal 2006, the Company recorded a Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle of $5.6 million ($4.3 million after tax) or $0.02 per share as a result of implementing the Interpretation to account for the Companys unrecorded legal obligations to restore some of its leased facilities to their original condition upon lease expiration. Earnings Per Share and Share Base Earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 decreased $0.35 to $2.16. Earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 were adversely impacted by special charges of $1.46 per share and favorably impacted by a decrease in the average share base of 8.3 million shares from fiscal 2006. This decline in the share base was the result of the Companys acquisition and retirement of 16.4 million shares through two accelerated share repurchase transactions with 9.3 million shares acquired during the first quarter and 7.1 million shares acquired during the second quarter of fiscal 2007. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these transactions. This reduction to the share base was partially offset by option exercises during the past twelve months and an increase in common stock equivalents of 1.2 million for fiscal 2007. Earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.20 to $2.51 for fiscal 2006. Earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 were adversely impacted by special charges of $0.26 per share and a decrease in income from continuing operations and favorably impacted by a decline in the average share base of 4.1 million shares for fiscal 2006. This decline in the share base was driven primarily by the Companys acquisition of 7.13 million treasury shares in the HPS exchange which reduced weighted average shares outstanding by 6.6 million shares for fiscal 2006. This reduction was partially offset by employee stock option exercises during fiscal 2006. Common stock equivalents declined slightly on a year over year basis. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash Flows Dollars in millions Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 Net cash from operations $ 1,578.6 $ 1,551.3 $ 1,941.5 Net cash used in investing (872.7 ) (1,124.0 ) (595.4 ) Net cash used in financing (955.5 ) (150.7 ) (900.6 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9.0 3.8 2.0 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (240.6 ) 280.4 447.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,290.7 1,010.3 562.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,050.1 $ 1,290.7 $ 1,010.3 37 Historically, the majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents have been provided from operating activities and this trend continued during fiscal 2007 as operating activities generated an additional $27 million in cash compared to the prior year or $1.6 billion in net cash during fiscal 2007. Cash generated from operations during fiscal 2007 was the result of factors with significant, but opposing, impacts on cash flow, including cash outflows to fund the restructuring plan and cash inflows from advanced customer payments. Factors impacting working capital during the year include: During fiscal 2007 cash payments for restructuring activities were $181 million; net of $26 million from the sale of assets related to the restructuring, during fiscal 2007 During fiscal 2007 the Companys billed trade accounts receivables and unbilled receivables increased approximately $223 million and $229 million, respectively. The increase in trade receivables was across both the North American Public Sector and the Global Commercial segments. The increase in unbilled receivables related primarily to contracts in Europe and U.S. federal contracts. This compares to an increase in unbilled receivables of approximately $184 million and a minimal increase in trade accounts receivable during fiscal 2006. The fiscal 2007 increase in trade accounts receivable and unbilled receivables contributed to an increase in DSO to 94 days at the end of fiscal 2007 from 87 days at the end of last year. The Companys investment in deferred costs and work in progress related to certain contracts increased approximately $231 million during fiscal 2007 compared to an increase of $262 million in the prior year. The majority of the increase relates to the UK National Health Service contract. Accounts payable and accrued expenses combined increased $532 million for fiscal 2007 compared to a decrease of $50 million for fiscal 2006. The increase in the balance for fiscal 2007 was the result of the timing of payments for accounts payable, which included an increase of approximately $110 million of capital expenditure payables, an increase in accrued expenses for restructuring activities and activity on contracts. The Company made payments for taxes of $304.8 million and $147.9 million for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company projects cash payments for taxes to remain at fiscal 2007 levels for 2008; however, resolution of tax contingencies could have a significant impact on cash tax payments. Advanced payments received from customers increased approximately $270 million during fiscal 2007, primarily as a result of the achievement of billing milestones on a significant development effort for a foreign government client. Such balances partially offset the Companys significant investment in this project. This compares to a decrease in advanced payments from customers for fiscal 2006 as a result of the winding down of a contract and lower advanced payments on another contract as it transitioned out of the start up phase. The Company has submitted 16 Requests for Equitable Adjustment (REAs) totaling in excess of $1 billion on two U.S. Federal contracts. Included in current assets on the Companys balance sheet is approximately $820 million of unbilled accounts receivable and deferred costs related to the contracts. CSC has requested payment for certain related out of scope work directed or caused by the customers in support of their critical missions. The contractual modification process for scope changes has lagged behind the need for CSC to provide critical on going operational support. The Company does not record any profit element when it defers costs associated with such REAs. The Company believes it has a legal basis for pursuing recovery of these REAs and that collection is probable. Settlement of the amounts depends on individual circumstances and negotiations with the parties and we are unable to predict the timing of resolution of the REAs. 38 The Companys capital investments principally relate to purchases of computer equipment and purchases and development of software, and deferred outsourcing contract costs that have supported the Companys expanding Global Commercial operations in prior years. Investments include computer equipment purchased at the inception of outsourcing contracts as well as for subsequent upgrades, expansion or replacement of these client supporting assets. For cash flow presentation purposes, the Outsourcing Contracts line includes amounts paid to clients for assets purchased from the clients that are categorized as property and equipment on the balance sheet. Outsourcing contract costs are also comprised of incremental external costs as well as certain internal costs that directly relate to a contracts acquisition or start up, including payments to clients for amounts in excess of the fair market value of acquired assets (premium). The absence of significant new outsourcing contract awards during the latter part of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 resulted in a reduction in investing cash outflows for computer equipment and related facilities costs and for outsourcing contract costs. These reductions in cash outflows were partially offset by cash outflows for the acquisition of an identity management and credentialing business (see Note 4 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and an increase in cash outflows for purchase and development of software as a result of software purchases in Europe, primarily for the National Health Service contract. While increasing new business will typically require higher overall capital investments, the mix of the new business will also impact the level of capital. The growth in U.S. federal awards during fiscal 2006 limited the growth in overall capital investment in fiscal 2007 as U.S. federal contracts typically require lower levels of initial investment when compared with similar commercial outsourcing contracts. This is expected to continue during fiscal 2008 but is expected to be tempered somewhat by revenue resulting from an increase in commercial contract awards during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, as well as the payment for capital expenditures incurred during fiscal 2007 of approximately $110 million. Dispositions of investments in businesses have from time to time generated investing cash flows for the Company. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 the disposition of DynCorp International generated $775 million in cash proceeds. As discussed below the Company used these proceeds to reduce debt levels during that quarter. As described above, historically a majority of the Companys capital investments have been funded by cash from operations. Fiscal 2007 continued to reflect this trend; however, the Company has increased its use of capital leases to finance certain equipment purchases related to long term contracts with total capital lease obligations of $152 million as of March 30, 2007. The Company funded the acquisition and retirement of outstanding shares from two accelerated share repurchase transactions during fiscal 2007 with approximately $600 million of commercial paper and cash on hand. The commercial paper was redeemed during fiscal 2007 using cash generated from operating activities. During fiscal 2006 the Company financed its capital investments primarily with cash generated from operations. Financing cash flows for fiscal 2005 reflected the Companys use of the proceeds from the sale of DynCorp International to redeem $1.0 billion of term debt during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Cash outflows to redeem the term debt included $27.8 million of early redemption premiums. At year end fiscal 2007 and 2006, there was no outstanding commercial paper, a result of cash generated from operations. Partially offsetting the financing cash out flows were cash proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options during fiscal 2007 and 2006 of $94.8 million and $101.1 million, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources The balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,050.1 million at March 30, 2007, $1,290.7 million at March 31, 2006, and $1,010.3 million at April 1, 2005. During fiscal 2007, equity decreased $619.9 million primarily as a result of the Companys repurchase of outstanding shares through two accelerated share repurchase transactions and the adoption SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (SFAS No. 158), which required the recognition of an additional unfunded pension obligation of $705.1 million ($476.5 million net of taxes) on the balance sheet. The Companys total unfunded pension obligation was $801.7 million at March 30, 2007. In prior years, the unfunded pension obligation would have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Current year earnings of $388.8 million, the exercise of employee stock options for $94.8 million and an increase in the foreign currency translation adjustment of $248.3 million partially offset these reductions. 39 At the end of fiscal 2007, CSCs ratio of debt to total capitalization was 20.4%, up from the ratio at the end of fiscal 2006 of 18.4%, and from 18.0% at the end of fiscal 2005. The increase in the debt ratio was primarily the result of the decrease in equity due to the share repurchases and the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 158 as discussed above. The Companys debt to total capitalization ratio of 20.4% is expected to rise in fiscal 2008 as a result of financing the announced acquisition of Covansys Corporation as well as financing the repurchase of up to $1 billion of outstanding common stock under a Rule 10b5 1 purchase plan. The capitalization ratio may also be impacted during fiscal 2008 by the need to finance other suitable investments the Company may identify or other significant capital requirements that may arise. Dollars in millions 2007 2006 2005 As Restated As Restated Debt $ 1,505.9 $ 1,462.1 $ 1,388.7 Equity 5,885.5 6,505.4 6,314.2 Total capitalization $ 7,391.4 $ 7,967.5 $ 7,702.9 Debt to total capitalization 20.4 % 18.4 % 18.0 % The Company purchased and retired approximately 16.4 million outstanding common shares through two accelerated share repurchase transactions for $1 billion during fiscal 2007. The first transaction was an accelerated share repurchase agreement for 9.3 million shares for an initial purchase price of $500 million, or $54 per share, subject to adjustment. The second transaction was a collared share repurchase agreement under which the Company acquired 7.1 million shares for $500 million. The number of shares is subject to adjustment upon final determination of the price per share subject to the terms of the collar. For the collared share repurchase agreement the Company has no further obligation and may receive additional shares depending on the final price per share. These transactions were financed through available cash on hand and the issuance of approximately $600 million of commercial paper which has subsequently been redeemed. The Companys sources of liquidity include cash, commercial paper and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Short term borrowings are principally used to supplement operating cash flow in funding working capital requirements. At March 30, 2007, the Company had a committed line of credit providing $1 billion of long term commercial paper backup which expires on August 23, 2011. If the Company were unable to sell its commercial paper, borrow under its uncommitted lines of credit, or determines it is too costly to do either of the aforementioned, the Company has the ability to borrow under this committed line of credit. This line of credit has the option of being drawn at a Base Rate, a Eurodollar Rate or a bid option rate. The line requires the Company to 1) limit liens placed on our assets to $100 million and to liens incurred in the ordinary course of business; 2) maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of consolidated Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) to consolidated interest expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on or immediately prior to such period not to exceed 3.00 to 1.00; and 3) not permit at the end of any quarterly financial reporting period the ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on or immediately prior to such date, to exceed 3.00 to 1.00. For further details on this agreement please see Exhibit 10.23, which is incorporated by reference to this Annual Report. As of March 30, 2007 the Companys total liquidity was approximately $2,050 million which included cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1,050.1 million and availability under the syndicated backstop credit facility of $1 billion. As of March 30, 2007, the Company had no borrowings under this credit facility and was in compliance with all terms of the agreement. At March 30, 2007, the Company had $51.9 million of short term borrowings and $1.45 billion of long term debt. As further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, commercial paper is classified as short term borrowings. The Company had no outstanding commercial paper as of March 30, 2007. In March 2005, the Company used the proceeds from the sale of DynCorp International and cash on hand to redeem the 7.5% term notes due August 2005, and the 6.75% term notes due June 2006 for $998.9 million, and an early redemption premium of $27.8 million. 40 On March 21, 2005, the Company instituted a voluntary share repurchase program for shareholders owning less than 100 shares. Under this program which has now expired, the Company repurchased 48,443 shares for $2.2 million on April 25, 2005 and 11,000 shares for $.5 million on May 31, 2005. In the opinion of management, CSC will be able to meet its liquidity and cash needs for the foreseeable future through the combination of cash flows from operating activities, cash balances, and unused short term borrowing capacity. If these resources need to be augmented, major additional cash requirements would likely be financed by the issuance of debt and or equity securities and or the exercise of the put option as described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. During fiscal 2002, the Company filed a shelf registration statement for up to $1.5 billion of debt and or equity securities. The Company has previously issued $600 million worth of term debt from the shelf registration, leaving $900 million of shelf available for additional securities. As a result of the delay in filing its second and third quarter Form 10 Qs during fiscal 2007 the Company will not be able to utilize the available shelf registration to issue additional securities until April of 2008. There can be no assurances the Company will be able to issue debt with acceptable terms. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the expiration of the Companys financial guarantees outstanding as of March 30, 2007: Dollars in millions Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 & thereafter Total Performance guarantees: Surety bonds $ 22.4 $ 2.4 $ 24.8 Letters of credit 366.1 186.2 $ 10.1 562.4 Standby letters of credit 72.0 1.0 73.0 Foreign subsidiary debt guarantees 543.9 23.2 567.1 Total $ 1,004.4 $ 189.6 $ 33.3 $ 1,227.3 See Note 10 to the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The following table summarizes the Companys payments on contractual obligations by period as of March 30, 2007: Dollars in millions Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Total Long term debt $ 499.4 $ 498.5 $ 297.8 $ 1,295.7 Interest on fixed rate debt $ 74.9 117.1 76.1 13.7 281.8 Capital lease obligations 41.5 36.5 16.7 57.1 151.8 Bank debt 51.9 51.9 Operating leases 302.1 397.8 199.9 125.6 1,025.4 Minimum purchase obligations 435.3 313.4 53.8 802.5 Other long term liabilities .3 3.4 2.7 .1 6.5 Total $ 906.0 $ 1,367.6 $ 847.7 $ 494.3 $ 3,615.6 Regarding minimum purchase obligations included above, the Company has signed long term purchase agreements with certain software, hardware, telecommunication and other service providers to obtain favorable pricing, committed service levels and terms for services necessary for the operation of business activities. The Company is contractually committed to purchase specified service minimums over remaining periods ranging generally from one to five years. If the Company does not meet the specified service minimums, the Company may have an obligation to pay the service provider a portion or all of the shortfall. 41 The above excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The Company has numerous plans, both inside and outside of the U.S., and determines expected funding requirements on a per plan basis. The minimum funding requirement can vary significantly from year to year based on a variety of factors, and can be zero in some years. Funding is determined based on a review of benefit obligations and plan assets as well as various regulatory requirements including ERISA and Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) applied to U.S. government contracts. While there are certain minimum contribution requirements, CSC may elect to increase the level of funding of contributions based on a number of factors including performance of pension investments, changes in workforce composition and the ability to recover costs on cost reimbursable contracts. During fiscal 2008, the Company expects to make contributions of approximately $240 million to pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Company has not quantified expected contributions beyond fiscal 2008 because it is not possible to predict future timing or direction of the capital markets, which can have a significant impact on future minimum funding obligations. Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section later in this MD&A and to Note 12 to the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Fiscal 2007 Company contributions amounted to $248.8 million. These fiscal year contribution figures may differ from those in Note 12 to the notes to consolidated financial statements due to the use of a December 31st measurement date in that note. Dividends and Redemption It has been the Companys policy to invest earnings in the growth of the Company rather than distribute earnings as dividends. This policy, under which dividends have not been paid since fiscal 1969, is expected to continue, but is subject to review by the Board of Directors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Many of the types of estimates made are for contract specific issues. Changes to estimates or assumptions on a specific contract could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have identified several critical accounting estimates. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both: (a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Our critical accounting estimates relate to: revenue recognition and cost estimation and recoverability on long term, fixed price contracts; revenue recognition on software license sales that require significant customization; capitalization of outsourcing contract costs and software development costs; estimates used to determine deferred income taxes; assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill; assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities; and assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment. 42 Revenue recognition The majority of our revenue is recognized based on objective criteria and does not require significant estimates. Revenue from our fixed unit price contracts, time and materials contracts and cost plus contracts is recognized based on objective criteria and is not subject to estimates that may change over time. However, for our fixed price contracts that use percentage of completion accounting, which is less than seven percent of the Companys revenues, the determination of revenues and costs requires significant judgment and estimation. Under this method we recognize revenue on a constant margin as contract milestones or other output based measures are achieved. Costs are deferred until contractual milestones or other output based or cost based measures are achieved. The method requires estimates of costs and profits over the entire term of the contract, including estimates of resources and costs necessary to complete performance. Such estimates are particularly difficult on activities involving state of the art technologies such as system development projects. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our software and systems engineers, program managers and financial professionals. Key factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract profitability include the availability and productivity of labor and the nature and complexity of the work to be performed. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our management regularly reviews project profitability and the underlying estimates. Modifications to contract scope, schedule, and price may be required on development contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis. Accounting for such changes prior to formal contract modification requires evaluation of the characteristics and circumstances of the effort completed and assessment of probability of recovery. If recovery is deemed probable, we may, as appropriate, either defer the costs until the parties have agreed on the contract change or recognize the costs and related revenue as current period contract performance. We routinely negotiate such contract modifications in both the U.S. Federal and Global Commercial segments. Many of our contracts call for us to provide a range of services or elements to our customers. The total estimated revenue for these contracts is allocated to the various services or elements based on relative fair value. These relative fair values are determined based on objective evidence of fair value. Once the total estimated revenue has been allocated to the various contract elements, revenue for each element is recognized based on the relevant revenue recognition method for the services performed or elements delivered. Estimates of total revenue at contract inception often differ materially from actual revenue due to volume difference, changes in technology or other factors which may not be foreseen at inception. Revenue recognition on software license sales that require significant customization If significant customization is required in the delivery of a proprietary software product, revenue is recognized as the software customization services are performed in accordance with the percentage of completion method described above. Thus, cost and profit estimates are required over the life of the project, and changes in such estimates can have a material effect on results. Capitalization of outsourcing contract costs Certain costs incurred upon initiation of an outsourcing contract are deferred and amortized over the contract life. These costs consist of contract acquisition and transition/set up costs, and include the cost of due diligence activities after competitive selection, costs associated with installation of systems and processes, and amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair market value of acquired assets (premiums). Finance staff, working with program management, review costs to determine appropriateness for deferral in accordance with relevant accounting guidance. 43 Key estimates and assumptions that we must make include assessing the fair value of acquired assets in order to calculate the premium and projecting future cash flows in order to assess the recoverability of deferred costs. We utilize the experience and knowledge of our professional staff in program management, operations, procurement and finance areas, as well as third parties on occasion, to determine fair values of assets acquired. To assess recoverability, undiscounted estimated cash flows of the contract are projected over its remaining life and compared to the unamortized deferred cost balance. Such estimates require judgment and assumptions, which are based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our personnel. Key factors that are considered in estimating the undiscounted cash flows include projected labor costs and productivity efficiencies. A significant change in an estimate or assumption on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. Amortization of such premiums is recorded as a reduction to revenues. Capitalization of software development costs We capitalize certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products and to develop or purchase internal use software. Significant estimates and assumptions include: determining the appropriate period over which to amortize the capitalized costs based on the estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues, and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. For commercial software products, determining the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. We consider various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product, and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete. For internal use software, the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of our ability to utilize the software on an ongoing basis. To assess the realizability or recoverability of capitalized software costs, we must estimate future revenue, costs and cash flows. Such estimates require assumptions about future cash inflows and outflows, and are based on the experience and knowledge of professional staff. A significant change in an estimate related to one or more software products could result in a material change to our results of operations. Estimates used to determine income tax expense We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which principally arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. We also must analyze income tax reserves, as well as determine the likelihood of recoverability of deferred tax assets, and adjust any valuation allowances accordingly. Considerations with respect to the recoverability of deferred tax assets include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the tax asset relates. Valuation allowances are evaluated periodically and will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill We account for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. This method requires estimates to determine the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, including judgments to determine any acquired intangible assets such as customer related intangibles, as well as assessments of the fair value of existing assets such as property and equipment. Liabilities acquired can include balances for litigation and other contingency reserves established prior to or at the time of acquisition, and require judgment in ascertaining a reasonable value. Third party valuation firms may be used to assist in the appraisal of certain assets and liabilities, but even those determinations would be based on significant estimates provided by us, such as forecasted revenues or profits on contract related intangibles. Numerous factors are typically considered in the purchase accounting assessments, which are conducted by Company professionals from legal, finance, human resources, information systems, program management and other disciplines. Changes in assumptions and estimates of the acquired assets and liabilities would result in changes to the fair values, resulting in an offsetting change to the goodwill balance associated with the business acquired. 44 As goodwill is not amortized, goodwill balances are regularly assessed for potential impairment. Such assessments require an analysis of future cash flow projections as well as a determination of an appropriate discount rate to calculate present values. Cash flow projections are based on management approved estimates, which involve the input of numerous Company professionals from finance, operations and program management. Key factors used in estimating future cash flows include assessments of labor and other direct costs on existing contracts, estimates of overhead costs and other indirect costs, and assessments of new business prospects and projected win rates. Significant changes in the estimates and assumptions used in purchase accounting and goodwill impairment testing can have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities We offer a number of pension and postretirement benefit and life insurance benefit plans. CSC utilizes actuarial methods required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, as amended by SFAS No. 158 for fiscal 2007, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, to account for pension and postretirement benefit plans, respectively. The actuarial methods require numerous assumptions to calculate the net periodic pension benefit expense and the related pension benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans. Two of the most significant assumptions are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and discount rates. In making these assumptions, we are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates. Changes in the related net periodic pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these and other assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long term returns on pension plan assets. The assumption for the expected long term rate of return on plan assets is selected by taking into account the expected duration of the projected benefit obligation for each plan, the asset mix of the plan, historic plan asset returns as well as current market conditions and other factors. The weighted average of the expected long term rates of return, for all plans, on plan assets utilized for the fiscal 2007 pension plan valuations was 7.7% compared to 7.8% used in fiscal 2006. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half percent increase or decrease in each of the assumed rates of return on plan assets would have decreased or increased, respectively, the net periodic pension cost by approximately $16 million. An assumed discount rate is required to be used in each pension plan actuarial valuation. The discount rate assumption reflects the market rate for high quality, fixed income debt instruments based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of our pension plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year. The weighted average of the discount rates utilized for the fiscal 2007 pension plan valuations was 5.3% compared to 5.6% used for fiscal 2006. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half percent increase or decrease in each of the assumed discount rates would have decreased the net periodic pension cost by approximately $40 million, or increased it by approximately $52 million, respectively. Some portion of the increase or decrease would be moderated by cost reimbursable contracts. The accounting guidance includes mechanisms that serve to limit the volatility in earnings which would otherwise result from recording changes in the value of plan assets and benefit obligations in the consolidated financial statements in the periods in which such changes occur. For example, while the expected long term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long term returns, differences between the expected and actual returns may occur in any given year. Such differences contribute to the deferred actuarial gains or losses which are then amortized over time. For CSC, positive market returns for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 caused actual pension plan asset returns to exceed those expected. Declining discount rates over the past several years, which resulted in higher calculated benefit obligations, served to partially offset or more than offset the positive impact of the asset returns for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, respectively. For fiscal 2007, SFAS No. 158 requires recognition of a pension obligation if the fair value of plan assets is less than the projected benefit obligation (PBO) at the end of the year. For fiscal 2006, SFAS No. 87 requires recognition of a minimum pension obligation if the fair value of plan assets is less than the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) at the end of the year. At the end of fiscal 2007, a number of our pension plans had PBOs in excess of the fair value of their respective plan assets, thus requiring the recognition of additional pension obligations. The effect of this adjustment and the annual measurement was to increase pension liability by $403.5 million, decrease intangible assets by $16 million, decrease non current asset by $87.4 million, and increase accumulated comprehensive loss by $539.7 million ($376.0 million net of taxes). Based on future plan asset performance and interest rates, additional charges to equity might be required. 45 Assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation We are subject to various claims and contingencies associated with lawsuits, insurance, tax and other issues arising out of the normal course of business. The consolidated financial statements reflect the treatment of claims and contingencies based on managements view of the expected outcome. CSC consults with legal counsel on issues related to litigation and seeks input from other experts and advisors with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is probable and the amount is estimable, we accrue a liability in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Significant changes in the estimates or assumptions used in assessing the likelihood of an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial results. 46 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates The Company utilizes fixed rate long term debt obligations, short term commercial paper and other borrowings subject to market risk from changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to measure the impact of changes in interest rates on the value of market risk sensitive financial instruments. A hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates would not have a material impact on the Companys future earnings or cash flows and fair value of fixed rate debt. Foreign Currency During the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into certain contracts denominated in foreign currency. Potential foreign currency exposures arising from these contracts are analyzed during the contract bidding process. The Company generally manages these transactions by incurring costs to service contracts in the same currency in which revenue is received. Short term contract financing requirements are met by borrowing in the same currency. By generally matching revenues, costs and borrowings to the same currency, the Company has been able to substantially mitigate foreign currency risk to earnings. However, the Company is increasing its use of offshore support and is therefore becoming more exposed to currency fluctuations. The Company may use foreign currency forward contracts or options to hedge exposures arising from these transactions. During fiscal 2007, 38.2% of the Companys revenue was generated outside of the United States. Using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenue by 3.82% or $567.9 million, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies would increase revenue by 3.82% or $567.9 million. In the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by expenses incurred in local currency. As a result, a hypothetical 10% movement of the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies in either direction would impact the Companys earnings before interest and taxes by $8.3 million. This amount would be offset, in part, from the impacts of local income taxes and local currency interest expense. At March 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $914.1 million of non U.S. dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents, and approximately $51.9 million of non U.S. dollar borrowings. 47 
 
