Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, included in Part IV, Item 14 of this Report, and the Risk Factors section at the end of this Item 7, before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment. In this Report, all share numbers and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect our 2 for 1 stock splits, each in the form of a 100% stock dividend, effective February 17, 1999 and February 11, 2000. Overview We are the leading provider of highly integrated silicon solutions that enable broadband communications and networking of voice, video and data services. Using proprietary technologies and advanced design methodologies, we design, develop and supply complete system on a chip solutions and related hardware and software applications for every major broadband communications market. Our diverse product portfolio includes solutions for digital cable set top boxes and cable modems; high speed local, metropolitan and wide area and optical networks; home networking; VoIP; carrier access; residential broadband gateways; direct broadcast satellite and terrestrial digital broadcast; DSL; wireless communications; SystemI/O server solutions; and broadband network processors. From Broadcoms inception in 1991 through 1994, we were primarily engaged in product development and the establishment of strategic customer and foundry relationships. During that period, we generated the majority of our revenue from development work performed for key customers. We began shipping our products in 1994, and subsequently our revenue has increased predominantly through sales of our semiconductor products. We intend to continue to enter into development contracts with key customers, but expect that future development revenue will constitute a small percentage of our total revenue. We also generate a small percentage of our product revenue from the licensing of software and the provision of software support services and from licenses of system level reference designs. The percentage of our net revenue derived from independent customers located outside of the United States was approximately 23.3% in 2001, 20.3% in 2000 and 17.2% in 1999. All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time, our key customers have placed large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect these fluctuations will continue. Sales to Motorola, including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 18.2% of our net revenue in 2001, 23.2% of our net revenue in 2000 and 30.3% of our net revenue in 1999. Sales to 3Com, including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 15.1% of our net revenue in 2000 and 18.0% of our net revenue in 1999. Sales to Cisco, including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 14.1% of our net revenue in 2000 and 10.6% of our net revenue in 1999. Sales to our five largest customers (which customers have varied from year to year), including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 49.3% of our net revenue in 2001, 61.8% of our net revenue in 2000 and 66.6% of our net revenue in 1999. We expect that our key customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2002 and for the foreseeable future. Our gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix; the position of our products in their respective life cycles; competitive pricing strategies; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; amortization of purchased intangible assets; stock based compensation expense; the fair value of performance based warrants earned by certain customers; and the mix of product revenue and development revenue. For example, newly introduced products generally have higher average selling prices and gross margins, both of which typically decline over product life cycles due to competitive pressures and volume pricing agreements. Our gross margin and results of operations may continue to fluctuate as a result of these and other factors. 17 Table of Contents The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to six months or more, with an additional three to nine months or more before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Moreover, in light of the recent significant economic slowdown in the technology sector, it may take significantly longer than three to nine months before customers commence volume production of equipment incorporating some of our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays between incurring expenses for research and development and selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. Furthermore, during 2002 and thereafter, we may continue to increase our investment in research and development, selling, general and administrative functions and inventory. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month. If anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. A key element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. During 2001 and 2000 we completed 12 acquisitions that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, for aggregate equity consideration of $6.175 billion. In 2001 these acquisitions included Visiontech Ltd., a supplier of digital video/ audio MPEG 2 compression and decompression chips; ServerWorks Corporation, a supplier of high performance system input/ output integrated circuits for servers, workstations and storage platforms; KimaLink, a developer of integrated circuits for wireless data communications; and PortaTec Corporation, a developer of integrated solutions for smart mobile devices. In 2000 these acquisitions included Innovent Systems, Inc., a developer of radio frequency integrated circuits for wireless data communications; Puyallup Integrated Circuit Company, Inc., a provider of integrated circuit design services; Altima Communications, Inc., a supplier of networking integrated circuits for the small to medium sized business networking market; NewPort Communications, Inc., a supplier of mixed signal integrated circuits for the high speed communications infrastructure market; Silicon Spice Inc., a developer of communications processors and other technology for high density voice, fax and data packet transmission over wide area networks; Element 14, Inc., a developer of high port density, low power digital subscriber line chipsets, software and communications processor technology; Allayer Communications, a developer of high performance enterprise and optical networking communications chips; and SiByte, Inc., a developer of high performance microprocessor solutions for broadband networking. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase transaction, the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired companies commencing as of their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, during 2000 and 1999 we completed nine acquisitions that were accounted for using the pooling of interests method of accounting. In 2000 these acquisitions included Digital Furnace Corporation, a developer of communications algorithms and software that increase the capacity of existing broadband networks for interactive services; BlueSteel Networks, Inc., a developer of high performance Internet security processors for e commerce and VPN applications; Stellar Semiconductor, Inc., a developer of 3D graphics technology; and Pivotal Technologies Corporation, a developer of high performance communications links for both wired and wireless environments. In 1999 these acquisitions included Maverick Networks, a developer of highly integrated silicon solutions for multi layer switching equipment in enterprise networks; Epigram, Inc., a developer of advanced semiconductor products for high speed home networking; Armedia, Inc., a developer of high performance digital video decoders; HotHaus Technologies Inc., a provider of OpenVoIP embedded communications software that enables transmission of digital voice, fax and data packets over data networks, including the Internet; and AltoCom, Inc., a provider of complete software data/ fax modem implementations for general purpose embedded processors, PC CPUs and digital signal processors. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a pooling of interests transaction, our historical consolidated financial statements and the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for prior periods have been restated to include the operations of these nine companies as if they had been combined with our company at the beginning of the first period presented. Included in restated net revenue and net loss for 2000 were revenue and net losses, aggregating $0.3 million and $8.8 million, respectively, from the four pooling of interests transactions completed in that year and incurred prior to the respective closings of those transactions. Included in restated net revenue and net income for 1999 were revenue and net losses, aggregating $11.3 million and $19.6 million, respectively, incurred prior to the respective closings of the nine pooling of interests transactions. 18 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, inventory reserves, strategic investments, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, warranty reserves, restructuring costs, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect the significant judgments and estimates we use in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue, Receivables and Inventory. We recognize product revenue upon concluding that all of the fundamental criteria for revenue recognition have been met. The criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment, except for shipments to stocking distributors where revenue is recognized upon sale to the end customer. In addition, we record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and allowances such as competitive pricing programs. Should actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates, additional reductions to revenue would result. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We provide reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, use of materials and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required, which could reduce gross margins. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. The purchase method of accounting for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in process research and development (IPR&D). The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets impact future amortization; the amount assigned to IPR&D is expensed immediately. If the assumptions and estimates used to allocate the purchase price are not correct, purchase price adjustments or future asset impairment charges could be required. Impairment of Long Lived Assets. We evaluate long lived assets used in operations, including goodwill and purchased intangible assets, when indicators of impairment, such as reductions in demand or significant economic slowdowns in the semiconductor industry, are present. Reviews are performed to determine whether the carrying value of assets is impaired based on comparison to the undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the comparison indicates that there is impairment, the impaired asset is written down to fair value, which is typically calculated using a weighted average of the market approach and discounted expected future cash flows using a discount rate based upon our weighted average cost of capital. Impairment is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecast of future operating results that is used in the preparation of expected discounted cash flows. It is reasonably possible that the estimates of anticipated future net revenue, the remaining estimated economic life of the products and technologies, or both, could differ from those used to assess the recoverability of these assets. In that event, additional impairment charges or shortened useful lives of certain long lived assets could be required. Strategic Investments. We have made strategic investments in publicly traded and privately held companies for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. The share prices of the publicly traded securities have been volatile, and the value of the non publicly traded securities is difficult to determine. We periodically review these investments for other than temporary declines in fair value and write down investments to their fair value when an other than temporary decline has occurred based on the specific identification method. We generally believe an other than 19 Table of Contents temporary decline has occurred when the fair value of the investment is below the carrying value for two consecutive quarters, absent evidence to the contrary. Fair values for investments in public companies are determined using the quoted market prices. Fair values for investments in privately held companies are estimated based upon one or more of the following: pricing models using historical and forecasted financial information, the values of recent rounds of financing, or quoted market prices of comparable public companies. Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of our non publicly traded securities, had there been an active market for the equity securities, the carrying values might have been materially different than the amounts reported. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of companies in which we have such investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investments current carrying value and which could require an impairment charge. Deferred Taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. If we determine that we will not realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, we will make an adjustment to the deferred tax assets, which adjustment will be charged to income tax expense in the period of such determination. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 58.0 44.2 40.7 Gross profit 42.0 55.8 59.3 Operating expense: Research and development 46.4 22.9 22.9 Selling, general and administrative 16.2 9.4 11.8 Stock based compensation 50.3 10.5 0.6 Amortization of goodwill 78.3 12.5 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 2.8 0.1 Impairment of goodwill 122.9 In process research and development 11.4 65.1 Restructuring costs 3.6 Litigation settlement costs 0.3 3.3 Merger related costs 0.4 2.9 Income (loss) from operations (290.2 ) (65.1 ) 17.8 Interest income, net 2.4 2.2 1.6 Other income (expense), net (3.2 ) (0.2 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (291.0 ) (63.1 ) 19.4 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5.9 ) (0.4 ) 5.5 Net income (loss) (285.1 )% (62.7 )% 13.9 % Years Ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 Net Revenue. Our revenue consists principally of product revenue generated by sales of our semiconductor products, and to a much lesser extent, from licenses of software and the provision of software support services and development revenue generated under development contracts with our customers. Net revenue is revenue less provisions for returns and allowances and the fair value of performance based warrants earned by certain customers. Net revenue for 2001 was $961.8 million, a decrease of $134.3 million or 12.3% as compared with net revenue of $1.096 billion in 2000. Net revenue was reduced by $25.5 million and $38.6 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively, to account for the fair value of the performance based warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock earned by certain customers in connection with purchase and development agreements that we assumed in prior acquisitions. 20 Table of Contents The decline in net revenue for 2001 as compared to 2000 resulted primarily from a decrease in volume shipments of our semiconductor products for the high speed networking market, digital cable set top boxes and cable modems, as our customers faced slower demand for their products and continued to work through their inventory issues, offset in part by shipments of SystemI/ O server products. Due to the significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and semiconductor industry in 2001, we experienced a significant slowdown in customer orders, as well as an increase in the number of order cancellations and reschedulings of backlog. We experienced modest revenue growth in the third and fourth quarters of 2001 and expect that modest growth to continue in the first quarter of 2002. Gross Profit. Gross profit represents net revenue less the cost of revenue. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing the finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with assembly, packaging, test and quality assurance for semiconductor products, amortization of purchased technology, and costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support and contracted development work. Gross profit for 2001 was $404.1 million or 42.0% of net revenue, a decrease of $207.9 million or 34.0% from gross profit of $611.9 million or 55.8% of net revenue in 2000. The decrease in gross profit was mainly attributable to the decrease in the volume of semiconductor product shipments as well as non cash acquisition related charges, including amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock based compensation expense. This decrease was offset in part by cost reductions in 2001. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue for 2001 compared with 2000 was primarily a result of the non cash acquisition related charges and, to a lesser extent, decreased absorption of manufacturing overhead due to lower production volumes and shifts in our product mix. Approximately $15.9 million and $4.6 million of stock based compensation expense were included in cost of revenue in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately $51.7 million and $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets were included in cost of revenue in 2001 and 2000, respectively. At December 31, 2001 the unamortized balance of purchased intangible assets that will be amortized to cost of revenue in the future was $62.9 million, of which $52.6 million is expected to be amortized in 2002 and $10.3 million is expected to be amortized in 2003. See Notes 1, 2 and 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We anticipate that gross profit will continue to be impacted by the non cash amortization of acquisition related charges. In addition, gross profit is likely to be impacted in the future by competitive pricing strategies, fluctuations in the volume of our product sales, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs, and the possible future introduction of certain lower margin products. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, costs related to engineering design tools, subcontracting costs, and facilities expenses. Research and development expense for 2001 was $446.6 million or 46.4% of net revenue, an increase of $196.0 million or 78.2% as compared with research and development expense of $250.7 million or 22.9% of net revenue in 2000. This increase was primarily due to the addition of personnel through acquisitions and internal hiring, investment in design tools for the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, and the cost of additional facilities required to support the increase in headcount. Research and development expense in the near term is expected to be slightly higher in absolute dollars than the 2001 levels. Due to the significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and current market conditions, we are not currently able to assess the trend of research and development expense thereafter. However, based upon past experience, we anticipate that research and development expense in absolute dollars will continue to increase over the long term as a result of the growth and diversification of the markets we serve, new product opportunities and our expansion into new markets and technologies. We will continue to periodically assess our cost structure and product programs to improve operational efficiencies. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, professional and legal fees, trade show expenses and facilities expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense for 2001 was $155.4 million or 16.2% of net revenue, an increase of $52.1 million or 50.5% as compared with selling, general and administrative expense of $103.3 million or 9.4% of net revenue in 2000. This increase reflected higher personnel related costs resulting from the addition of sales and marketing, senior management and administrative personnel through acquisitions and internal hiring as well as increased facilities expenses and legal fees. Selling, general and administrative expense in the near term is expected to be slightly higher in absolute dollars than the 2001 levels. Due to the significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and current market conditions, we are not currently able to assess the trend of selling, general and administrative expense thereafter. However, based upon past experience, we anticipate that over the long term selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars will continue to increase to support expansion of our operations through indigenous growth and acquisitions, as a result of periodic changes in our infrastructure to support increased headcount, acquisition and integration activities, and international operations, and in view of the volume of current litigation. We will continue to periodically assess our cost structure and product programs to improve operational efficiencies. 21 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense. Stock based compensation expense generally represents the amortization of deferred compensation as well as expense related to options subject to variable accounting. We recorded approximately $377.9 million of deferred compensation in 2001 and $1.242 billion of deferred compensation in 2000, primarily in connection with stock options assumed in our acquisitions. Deferred compensation primarily represents the difference between the fair value of our common stock at the measurement date of each acquisition and the exercise price of the unvested stock options assumed in the acquisition. Additional deferred compensation related to earned contingent consideration is measured and recorded at the date the contingency is met. Deferred compensation is presented as a reduction of shareholders equity and is amortized ratably over the respective vesting periods of the applicable options, generally three to five years. Approximately $84.6 million and $6.2 million of deferred compensation was eliminated due to employee terminations during 2001 and 2000, respectively. Stock based compensation expense for 2001 was $484.0 million or 50.3% of net revenue, an increase of $368.7 million or 319.8% as compared with stock based compensation expense of $115.3 million or 10.5% of net revenue in 2000. Approximately $15.9 million and $4.6 million of additional stock based compensation expense was classified as cost of revenue in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately $11.1 million of additional stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of certain terminated employees was classified as restructuring costs for 2001. Approximately $0.3 million of additional stock based compensation expense was classified as merger related costs for 2000. The significant increase in stock based compensation expense for 2001 relates primarily to stock options assumed in the four purchase transactions completed during 2001 as well as the full year impact of the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000, all of which were accounted for in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation An Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25 (FIN 44). We expect to record additional stock based compensation expense in future periods as a result of the continued amortization of deferred compensation related to these purchase transactions. In connection with our acquisition of ServerWorks in 2001 and our acquisitions of Allayer and SiByte in 2000, we agreed to increase the aggregate equity consideration for each acquisition if certain future internal performance goals were later achieved. Such additional consideration, if earned, will be paid in the form of additional shares of our Class A common stock. Any additional consideration paid that is allocated to deferred compensation will be amortized over the remaining vesting periods of the underlying options and restricted stock assumed in the acquisitions. In addition, outstanding options assumed in these transactions are subject to variable accounting and are revalued quarterly over their applicable vesting periods until all performance goals are satisfied or until the options are exercised, forfeited, cancelled or expire. We recorded an additional $24.8 million of deferred compensation during 2001 when certain Allayer, SiByte and ServerWorks performance goals were met. Approximately $5.0 million of this amount was expensed immediately. At December 31, 2001, 6,466,831 shares of Class A common stock were reserved for future issuance if the remaining internal performance goals established in connection with our acquisitions of SiByte and ServerWorks are met. If the remaining internal performance goals had been met at December 31, 2001, additional consideration of approximately $264.3 million, based on the closing price of our Class A common stock on December 31, 2001, would have been recorded and allocated between goodwill and deferred compensation. The amount of actual additional consideration to be recorded will vary depending on which, if any, of the remaining internal performance goals are met and the actual market values of our Class A common stock on the dates such internal performance goals are satisfied. We recorded approximately $35.0 million in stock based compensation expense in 2001 related to stock options subject to variable accounting, using the fair market value of $40.87 per share based on the closing price of our Class A common stock on December 31, 2001, in accordance with FIN 44 and FIN No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans. These charges have been and in the future will be based on the amount by which our Class A common stock closing price at the end of the reporting period, or at the date of exercise, if earlier, exceeds the exercise price. Depending upon movements in the market value of our Class A common stock, the variable accounting treatment of certain stock options may result in significant additional stock based compensation expense in future periods. At December 31, 2001 there were 3,379,974 shares subject to variable accounting, of which 751,400 were vested and 2,628,574 were unvested. These shares have a weighted average per share exercise price of $8.68 and an average life of approximately three years. See Notes 1, 3 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. In connection with the four purchase transactions completed during 2001 and contingent consideration earned from previous acquisitions, we recorded approximately $962.6 million of additional goodwill and $129.3 million of purchased intangible assets in 2001. For the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000, we recorded approximately $3.351 billion of goodwill and $50.3 million of purchased intangible assets in 2000. 22 Table of Contents Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Intangible assets acquired include completed technology, customer relationships and assembled workforce. We obtained independent appraisals or performed internal appraisals of the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired to allocate the purchase prices. Goodwill and purchased intangible assets are amortized on a straight line basis over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally two to five years. The amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets for 2001 was $780.2 million or 81.1% of net revenue, an increase of $642.0 million or 464.4% as compared with $138.2 million or 12.6% of net revenue in 2000. In addition, approximately $51.7 million and $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets has been classified as cost of revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. At December 31, 2001 the unamortized balance of purchased intangible assets that will be amortized in the future was $22.1 million, of which the majority is expected to be amortized to expense in 2002. See Notes 1, 2 and 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with our acquisitions of Allayer, SiByte and ServerWorks, we recorded $180.3 million of additional goodwill during 2001 when certain internal performance goals were met. We expect to record additional consideration in the future when and if any of the remaining internal performance goals are met. Any additional consideration paid will be allocated between goodwill and deferred compensation. In June 2001 the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141), and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under these new rules, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 142 is immediately applicable to any acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. We will apply the new rules on accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets from prior acquisitions beginning in the first quarter of 2002. As of December 31, 2001 the unamortized balance of goodwill and other intangible assets was $2.254 billion. This balance includes assembled workforce, which will be reclassified to goodwill on January 1, 2002 in accordance with SFAS 142. Application of the non amortization provisions of SFAS 142 is estimated to result in a decrease in amortization of goodwill of approximately $581.1 million per year (or $2.29 per share based on weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2001). We will perform the first of the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets under the new rules as of January 1, 2002. We have not yet determined the effect that these tests will have on our results of operations and financial position. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2001 we performed an assessment of the carrying values of intangible assets recorded in connection with our various acquisitions. The assessment was performed in accordance with SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed of (SFAS 121), due to the recent significant economic slowdown and the reduction in near term demand in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry. As a result of the assessment, we concluded that the decline in market conditions within the industry was significant and other than temporary. Based on this assessment and an independent valuation, we recorded a charge of $1.182 billion to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. See Notes 1 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In Process Research and Development. IPR&D totaled $109.7 million for the four purchase transactions completed in 2001, as compared to $713.1 million for the eight purchase transactions completed in 2000. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of IPR&D for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present value at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance upon core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based upon forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. 23 Table of Contents The IPR&D charge includes only the fair value of IPR&D performed to date. The fair value of completed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets, and the fair values of IPR&D to be completed and future research and development are included in goodwill. We believe the amounts recorded as IPR&D, as well as developed technology, represent fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects. As of the closing date of each purchase transaction, development projects were in process. Although the costs to bring the products from the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our future results of operations or financial condition, the development of these technologies remains a significant risk due to the remaining effort required to achieve technical viability, rapidly changing customer markets, uncertain standards for new products, and significant competitive threats from numerous companies. The nature of the efforts to develop the acquired technologies into commercially viable products consists principally of planning, designing and testing activities necessary to determine that the products can meet market expectations, including functionality and technical requirements. Failure to bring these products to market in a timely manner could result in a loss of market share or a lost opportunity to capitalize on emerging markets and could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operating results. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations for our significant purchase transactions completed in 2001 and 2000: Weighted Average Average Estimated Risk Estimated Estimated Cost to Adjusted Purchase Percent Time to Complete Discount IPR&D Transaction Development Projects Complete Complete (In millions) Rate (In millions) 2001 Acquisitions Visiontech Video compression integrated circuits 60% 1 year $ 5.2 30 35 % $ 30.4 ServerWorks High performance SystemI/O integrated circuits for servers 45% 1.5 years 21.2 29 34 % 79.3 2000 Acquisitions Innovent RF integrated circuits for wireless 43% 1.5 years $ 6.9 30 35 % $ 41.7 Altima Ethernet physical layer transceivers 47% 1 year 2.9 30 35 % 4.0 NewPort Integrated circuits for optical communications equipment 70% 1 year 3.7 30 35 % 198.5 Silicon Spice Communications processors 84% 1 year 10.0 30 % 219.3 Element 14. Integrated circuits used in DSL 49% 1 year 13.2 40 45 % 64.6 Allayer Integrated circuits for wide area and Ethernet switching applications 43% 1.5 years 5.0 31 36 % 11.6 SiByte Network processors 42% 1.5 years 31.4 30 35 % 173.4 We completed all of the Visiontech development projects as expected in 2001. ServerWorks is expected to complete two development projects during the first six months of 2002. One additional project is expected to be completed during 2003. The current weighted average percent complete for these projects is approximately 72%, and we estimate the cost to complete these projects will be approximately $7.8 million. We completed all five of the Innovent development projects by the end of 2001. An additional $16.9 million over the previous estimate was required to complete these projects. We completed three development projects of Altima as expected during 2001. We reallocated the resources on the remaining project to focus on next generation semiconductor products that we believe are better aligned with future demand. We completed all eight of the NewPort development projects as expected during 2001. An additional $4.7 million over the previous estimate was required to complete these projects. We completed the Silicon Spice development project as expected in 2001. We completed one of the Element 14 development projects during 2001. One additional project is expected to be completed during 2003. We estimate the cost to complete this project will be approximately $6.0 million. We completed one of the Allayer projects as expected during 2001. We reallocated the resources on the two remaining projects to focus on next generation semiconductor products that we believe are better aligned with future demand. 24 Table of Contents We currently expect to complete one of the SiByte development projects during 2002 and another project in 2003. The current weighted average percent complete for both projects is approximately 61%, and we estimate the cost to complete these projects will be approximately $14.7 million. Except as noted above, actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the in process projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections once the products have entered the market. Shipment volumes of products from the acquired technologies are not material to our overall financial results at the present time. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of overall revenue projections early in the technology life cycle. Failure to achieve the expected levels of revenue and net income from these products will negatively impact the return on investment expected at the time that the acquisitions were completed and may potentially result in impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets. Restructuring Costs. In the second quarter of 2001 we announced and began implementing a plan to restructure our operations in response to the then current challenging economic climate. This restructuring plan has resulted and will result in certain business unit realignments, workforce reductions and consolidation of excess facilities. For 2001 we recorded restructuring costs totaling $34.3 million, which were classified as operating expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We anticipate recording further restructuring costs in 2002 as we continue to implement this plan. Through December 31, 2001 the restructuring plan had resulted in termination of the employment of approximately 160 employees across all business functions and geographic regions. We recorded workforce reduction charges of approximately $16.1 million related to severance and fringe benefits. Included in this amount is approximately $11.1 million of stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of the terminated employees. In addition, headcount was reduced through attrition and reductions in the number of temporary and contract workers employed by us. Through December 31, 2001 we recorded charges of approximately $18.2 million for the consolidation of excess facilities. The charges related primarily to lease terminations and non cancelable lease costs. We cannot assure that our restructuring program will achieve all of the expense reductions and other benefits we anticipate. In addition, anticipated savings from reduced headcount or facility consolidations have been and may in the future be mitigated by subsequent increases to headcount and subsequent facilities additions related to our operating requirements. Litigation Settlement Costs. Litigation settlement costs of approximately $3.0 million were incurred in 2001. No comparable litigation settlement costs were incurred in 2000. Merger Related Costs. In connection with the pooling of interests transactions in 2000, merger related costs of approximately $4.7 million were incurred. No merger related costs were incurred in 2001 as there were no business combinations accounted for as poolings of interests. Merger related costs consist primarily of transaction costs, such as fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other related fees and expenses, incurred in acquisitions as well as certain restructuring costs related to the disposition of duplicative facilities and assets and the write down of unutilized assets. Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on average cash and cash equivalents and investment balances, less interest accrued on our debt and capital lease obligations. Interest income, net, for 2001 was $23.0 million as compared with $24.3 million in 2000. The decrease for 2001 was the result of interest expense incurred on debt assumed from our ServerWorks acquisition and an overall decline in interest rates on our investments, partially offset by increased cash balances available to invest resulting from the cash generated by operations, cash balances assumed in acquisitions, and cash received from the exercise of employee stock options. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. For 2001, other expense, net, was $30.9 million as compared with $2.7 million in 2000. During 2001 we recorded a loss of approximately $32.7 million representing an other than temporary decline in the value of our strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded income tax benefits of approximately $56.7 million in 2001 and $4.0 million in 2000, which resulted in effective tax rates of approximately 2.0% for 2001 and 0.6% for 2000. The federal statutory rate was 35% for both periods. The differences between our effective tax rates for 2001 and 2000 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D, impairment of goodwill and other acquisition related expenses from the 12 purchase transactions completed during 2001 and 2000, as well as the effects of certain 2001 losses recorded 25 Table of Contents without tax benefit. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2001 and 2000 we provided valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in the amounts of approximately $375.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively, resulting in an increase in the valuation allowance in 2001 of approximately $368.2 million. Approximately $215.2 million of the 2001 change in the valuation allowance was recorded as income tax expense. The remainder of the 2001 change was recorded primarily against shareholders equity as it relates primarily to the deferral of certain 2001 tax benefits from employee stock option exercises, which benefits, if and when recognized, will be recorded directly to shareholders equity. There is no valuation allowance provided against the remainder of our deferred tax assets, as we believe it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized. The primary bases for this conclusion are the expectation of future income from our ordinary and recurring operations and tax planning strategies, which rely on our continuing ability to realize value from our intellectual property portfolio. The Internal Revenue Service is examining our federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1999. Management believes that the results of these examinations will not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Years Ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 Net Revenue. Net revenue for 2000 was $1.096 billion, an increase of $574.9 million or 110.3% as compared with net revenue of $521.2 million in 1999. Net revenue for 2000 was reduced by $38.6 million, which represents the fair value of the performance based warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock earned by certain customers in connection with purchase and development agreements that we assumed in prior acquisitions. The growth in net revenue resulted mainly from increases in volume shipments of our semiconductor products for the high speed networking market, digital cable set top boxes and cable modems. Gross Profit. Gross profit for 2000 was $611.9 million or 55.8% of net revenue, an increase of $302.7 million or 97.9% from gross profit of $309.2 million or 59.3% of net revenue in 1999. The increase in gross profit was mainly attributable to the significant increase in the volume of semiconductor product shipments. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue was largely driven by volume pricing agreements and competitive pricing strategies on certain high volume products. Included in cost of revenue were approximately $4.6 million and $0.1 million of stock based compensation expense in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and approximately $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets in 2000. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense for 2000 was $250.7 million or 22.9% of net revenue, an increase of $131.4 million or 110.1% as compared with research and development expense of $119.3 million or 22.9% of net revenue in 1999. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to the addition of personnel and the investment in design tools for the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense for 2000 was $103.3 million or 9.4% of net revenue, an increase of $41.8 million or 68.0% as compared with selling, general and administrative expense of $61.5 million or 11.8% of net revenue in 1999. The increase in absolute dollars reflected higher personnel related costs resulting from the hiring of sales and marketing personnel, senior management and administrative personnel, increased facilities expenses and legal and other professional fees. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue reflected the significant increase in net revenue during 2000 as compared with 1999. Stock Based Compensation Expense. We recorded approximately $1.242 billion and $9.3 million of deferred compensation in 2000 and 1999, respectively, primarily in connection with stock options assumed in our acquisitions. Stock based compensation expense for 2000 was $115.3 million or 10.5% of net revenue, an increase of $111.7 million as compared with stock based compensation expense of $3.6 million or 0.6% of net revenue in 1999. Approximately $0.3 million and $1.0 million of additional stock based compensation expense in 2000 and 1999 were classified as merger related costs. In addition, approximately $4.6 million and $0.1 million of stock based compensation expense were classified as cost of revenue in 2000 and 1999, respectively. The significant increase in stock based compensation expense in 2000 relates primarily to stock options assumed in the eight purchase transactions completed during the year that were accounted for in accordance with FIN 44. See Notes 1, 3 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. In connection with the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000, we recorded approximately $3.351 billion of goodwill and $50.3 million of purchased intangible assets. The amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets for 2000 was $138.2 million or 12.6% of net revenue. No 26 Table of Contents comparable amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets was incurred in 1999. In addition, approximately $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets was classified as cost of revenue in 2000. In Process Research and Development. IPR&D aggregated $713.1 million for the purchase transactions completed in 2000. No amounts of IPR&D were incurred in 1999. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. Litigation Settlement Costs. Litigation settlement costs of approximately $17.0 million were incurred in 1999. No comparable litigation settlement costs were incurred in 2000. Merger Related Costs. Merger related costs of approximately $4.7 million and $15.2 million were incurred in 2000 and 1999, respectively, in connection with the pooling of interests transactions. Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net, for 2000 was $24.3 million as compared with $8.4 million in 1999. This increase was principally due to increased cash balances available to invest resulting from the cash generated by operations, cash balances assumed in acquisitions, and cash received from the exercise of employee stock options. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and the disposals of property and equipment. For 2000, other expense, net, was $2.7 million as compared with $260,000 in 1999. Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $4.0 million in 2000 and income tax expense of approximately $28.8 million in 1999, which resulted in effective tax rates of approximately 0.6% for 2000 and 28.5% for 1999. The federal statutory rate was 35% for both periods. The primary differences between our effective tax rates for 2000 and 1999 and the federal statutory rate resulted from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D and acquisition related expenses from the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000. Our effective tax rate on income before the effects of these items, and before the effects of payroll tax expenses relating to certain stock option exercises, was 20% for 2000 and 29.9% for 1999. The primary reasons for our decreased effective tax rate on income before such items for 2000 compared to 1999 were benefits from increased research and development credits and beneficial tax rate differentials on foreign earnings. At December 31, 2000 and 1999 we provided a valuation allowance of $6.9 million against a portion of certain acquired net operating losses, due to uncertainty regarding their future realization. There was no valuation allowance provided against the remainder of our deferred tax assets, as we believed it was more likely than not that these assets would be realized. The primary basis for this conclusion was the expectation of future income from our ordinary and recurring operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001 the FASB issued SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under these new rules, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. SFAS 142 is immediately applicable to any acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. We will apply the new rules on accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets from prior acquisitions beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Application of the non amortization provisions of SFAS 142 is estimated to result in a decrease in amortization of goodwill of approximately $581.1 million per year (or $2.29 per share based on weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2001). We will perform the first of the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets under the new rules during 2002. We have not yet determined the effect these tests will have on our results of operations and financial condition. In October 2001 the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144), which supercedes prior accounting standards concerning the financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or the disposition of long lived assets for the disposition of a segment of a business. SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We expect to adopt SFAS 144 as of January 1, 2002 and have not yet determined the effect, if any, the adoption of SFAS 144 will have on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception we have financed our operations through a combination of sales of equity securities, cash generated by operations and cash assumed in acquisitions. At December 31, 2001 we had $261.8 million in working capital, $539.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities and $109.8 million in long term marketable securities. Marketable securities are defined as income yielding securities that can be readily converted into cash. At December 31, 2000 we had $673.1 million in working capital, $601.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities, and $2.0 million in long term marketable securities. Our working capital declined in 2001 due primarily to our assumption of approximately $200.0 million in net current liabilities in the acquisitions made during the year. In addition, we had $109.8 million in long term marketable securities at the end of 2001 that were included in current assets at the end of 2000 and we expended approximately $91.7 million on additions to property and equipment and strategic investments. Cash and cash equivalents decreased from $523.9 million at December 31, 2000 to $403.8 million at December 31, 2001 as investing activities more than offset the cash provided by operating and financing activities. During 2001 operating activities provided $49.1 million in cash. Although we had a net loss of $2.742 billion in 2001, such amount included non cash items aggregating $2.660 billion resulting from depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, IPR&D, restructuring charges, deferred taxes and loss on strategic investments. In addition to the impact of non cash items, our 2001 operating activities also reflected decreases in accounts receivable and inventory, offset in part by decreases in other accrued liabilities. Operating activities provided cash in the amount of $162.0 million in 2000. This was primarily the result of the net loss of $687.8 million being more than offset by the impact of net non cash charges aggregating $965.8 million. Accounts receivable decreased $115.1 million to $57.2 million during 2001. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to lower billings at the end of 2001 as compared to 2000. Inventories decreased $29.9 million to $22.3 million during 2001. The reduction in inventory generally reflects the close management of our inventory levels during the recent economic slowdown, and the increased use of drop shipments from our manufacturing subcontractors directly to our customers. In the future, we may be required to maintain higher levels of accounts receivable and inventory to support increased sales. This may result in our operating activities using cash, in contrast to historically providing cash. Investing activities used cash in the amount of $216.8 million in 2001, primarily as a result of $166.1 million of net purchases of marketable securities, the purchase of $71.4 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the purchase of $20.3 million of strategic investments, offset in part by $41.0 million of net cash acquired in purchase transactions. In 2000 our investing activities provided $3.0 million in cash, as a result of $40.2 million in proceeds from the net sales of marketable securities and $69.4 million in net cash acquired in purchase transactions, offset in part by $80.7 million in purchases of capital equipment and the purchase of $25.9 million in strategic investments. Cash provided by financing activities was $47.6 million in 2001, which was primarily the result of a $90.0 million bank credit facility secured to replace the ServerWorks credit facility that was paid off in 2001, $59.8 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and $25.5 million in net proceeds from the exercise of performance based warrants earned by customers, partially offset by $128.6 million in payments on debt obligations primarily of acquired companies. Cash provided by financing activities was $178.1 million in 2000, primarily from $144.6 million in net proceeds from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and net proceeds of $38.6 million from the exercise of performance based warrants earned by customers, partially offset by $6.0 million in net payments on debt obligations of acquired companies. Due to the significant decline in our stock price, we received fewer proceeds from the exercise of stock options in 2001 than we did in 2000, as significantly fewer options, with lower exercise prices, were exercised. In the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. 28 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments: Payment Obligations by Year (In thousands) There 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 after Total Credit facility $ 90,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 90,000 Note payable 21,051 21,051 Capital leases 2,989 2,794 1,212 6,995 Operating leases 82,111 78,192 65,044 36,819 27,751 89,699 379,616 Purchase commitments 2,459 2,459 Total $ 198,610 $ 80,986 $ 66,256 $ 36,819 $ 27,751 $ 89,699 $ 500,121 In addition, we have guaranteed an aggregate of $1.2 million in loans provided by a financial institution to certain of our employees. At the time of its acquisition by us, ServerWorks had an existing bank credit facility of up to $125.0 million, of which $90.0 million was outstanding on the date of acquisition. To receive more favorable terms and conditions, on December 19, 2001 that credit facility was paid in full and terminated. On December 21, 2001 we entered into a replacement financing arrangement for a bank credit facility of up to $90.0 million. We may choose the rate at which the credit facility bears interest at the rate of either (a) the higher of (i) 0.5% plus the Federal Reserve rate and (ii) the Bank of America prime rate or (b) LIBOR plus 1% (selected in one, two or three month periods). Interest is payable at either the selected interest period or quarterly. At December 31, 2001 the interest rate for the credit facility was 2.9%. We must pay a commitment fee of 0.35% on any unused balance of the credit facility. At December 31, 2001, $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility is due and payable December 20, 2002. At the time of its acquisition by us, ServerWorks had a $35.0 million non interest bearing obligation to a third party. That obligation was paid in April 2001. Our debt also includes a note payable to a significant customer in the amount of $21.1 million that bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1% per year, adjusted quarterly, and is due in December 2002. At December 31, 2001 the interest rate for the note was 3.59%. The note becomes immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain events. The customer has asserted that the entire principal amount of the note and all interest accrued thereon are currently due and payable and has filed a lawsuit to collect the obligation; we dispute that assertion and are vigorously defending the lawsuit. See Notes 11 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Capitalized lease obligations for equipment are payable in varying monthly installments at rates from 7.8% to 14.7%. We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2012. We had outstanding capital commitments totaling approximately $2.5 million as of December 31, 2001, primarily for the purchase of engineering design tools, computer hardware and information systems infrastructure. During 2001 we spent approximately $79.3 million on capital equipment to support our operations. We expect that we will continue to spend substantial amounts during 2002 to purchase additional engineering design tools, computer hardware, test equipment, information systems and leasehold improvements, to support our operations and as we integrate and upgrade the capital equipment and facilities of acquired companies. We may finance these purchases from our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, on hand, borrowings, debt and equity offerings, or a combination of any of these means. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. We could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on terms that would be favorable to our shareholders and us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders 29 Table of Contents would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins; the market acceptance of our products; the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our new products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; volume price discounts; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans and product and technology roadmaps; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; capital improvements to new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors response to our products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; and general economic conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, including the effects of the current economic slowdown and related uncertainties. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are exposed to the risks associated with the recent worldwide economic slowdown and related uncertainties. Slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity have resulted in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, and particularly in the United States. As a result of these unfavorable economic conditions, in the first half of 2001 we experienced a significant slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of backlog and higher overhead costs as a percentage of our reduced net revenue. Although the volume of orders placed by customers increased, and our backlog and overhead costs, as a percentage of net revenue, improved during the second half of 2001, concerns remain regarding the timing, strength and duration of economic recovery in the semiconductor industry and broadband communications and Internet infrastructure markets. In addition, recent political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts can be expected to place further pressure on economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. Any such variations could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid technological change. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns such as the current one. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, excess customer inventories, accelerated erosion of prices and excess production capacity. The current downturn and future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry, or any failure of this industry or the broadband communications markets to fully recover from the recent downturn, could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. This industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products in future periods. Accordingly, our quarterly results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the following: economic and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, including the effects of the current significant economic slowdown; international conflicts and acts of terrorism and the impact of adverse economic, market and political conditions worldwide; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; the gain or loss of a key customer; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; the rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards in our target markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt Broadcom technologies and products in our target markets; the timing of customer industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non qualification or non certification; the effects of new and emerging technologies; the various risks inherent in our acquisitions of technologies and businesses; our ability to retain and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the numbers, with the capabilities and at the compensation levels that we need to implement our business and product plans; patent and other intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; 31 Table of Contents the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry and assembly and test capacity and raw materials; the risks and challenges of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly facilities; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; the effects of natural disasters and other events beyond our control; and the level of orders received that we can ship in a fiscal quarter. We expect to continue to increase our operating expenses in the future. A large portion of our operating expenses, including rent, salaries and capital lease expenditures, is fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our revenue does not meet our expectations, we probably would not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Report, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our revenue in the past from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to Motorola, including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors, accounted for approximately 18.2% of our net revenue in 2001. Sales to our five largest customers, including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, decreased to 49.3% of our net revenue in 2001 compared to 61.8% of our net revenue in 2000. We expect that our key customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in 2002 and in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: Most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. Our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum amount of our products. Many of our customers have pre existing relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect their decisions to purchase our products. Our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products. Some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. Our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. In addition, to attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual most favored nation pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in our sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Because we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, any significant order cancellations or deferrals could adversely affect our operating results. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Any significant cancellations or deferrals in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could reduce our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We face intense competition in the broadband communications markets and semiconductor industry, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets. The broadband communications markets and semiconductor industry are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in the markets for digital cable set top boxes, cable modems, high speed local, metropolitan and wide area and optical networks, home networking, VoIP, carrier access, residential broadband gateways, direct broadcast satellite and terrestrial digital broadcast, digital subscriber lines, wireless communications, I/O server solutions and network processing. We also compete with suppliers of system level and motherboard level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for some of our products. In all of our target markets, we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own silicon solutions. We also expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies in the future that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features, lower power requirements or lower cost. Increased competition has in the past and is likely to continue to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must keep pace with rapid technological changes in the semiconductor industry and broadband communications markets to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. We will also need to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products to meet our customers changing demands. Substantially all of our product revenue in recent quarters has been derived from sales of products for the cable modem, digital cable set top box, high speed office network and network server markets. These markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, these markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these or other broadband communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the broadband communications markets and to introduce and promote those products successfully. The broadband communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. If new markets do not develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents If we do not anticipate and adapt to evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and broadband communications markets, our products could become obsolete and we could lose market share. Products for broadband communications applications generally are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We have in the past invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our inability to anticipate the evolving standards in the semiconductor industry and, in particular the broadband communications markets, or to develop and introduce new products successfully into these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new silicon solutions for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost effective and timely manner and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our quarterly results in the past have been, and are expected in the future to continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; accurately define new products; timely complete and introduce new product designs; timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the products of our customers into which our products will be incorporated; obtain sufficient foundry capacity; achieve high manufacturing yields; shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and gain market acceptance of our products and our customers products. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our new products generally are incorporated into our customers products at the design stage. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. The value of our products largely depends on the commercial success of our customers products and on the extent to which those products accommodate components manufactured by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins or that equipment that incorporates our products will ever be commercially successful. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customer may need three to six months or longer to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to nine months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Moreover, in light of the recent significant economic slowdown in the technology sector, it may take significantly longer than three to nine months before customers commence volume production of 34 Table of Contents equipment incorporating some of our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing and inventory expenses in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions and we still have higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. Our acquisition strategy may require us to undertake significant capital infusions, be dilutive to our existing shareholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2001, we acquired 21 companies, including four acquisitions that were completed in 2001. We plan to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful completion of the acquired companys technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. In addition, acquisitions may materially and adversely affect our results of operations because they may require large one time charges or could result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, or the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and purchased intangible assets. In connection with our 12 purchase acquisitions to date, we recorded goodwill in the aggregate amount of approximately $4.313 billion. The portion of such goodwill attributable to each acquisition generally has been amortized over a 60 month period from the date that such acquisition closed. In accordance with SFAS 121 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.182 billion in the three months ended September 30, 2001 to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. Beginning in the first quarter of 2002, goodwill will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with SFAS 141 and SFAS 142. In addition, in connection with these acquisitions we incurred deferred compensation charges in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.595 billion, which will be amortized over the period of time for which the relevant options or restricted stock may continue to vest. We expect to record additional goodwill and deferred compensation charges in connection with future acquisitions and may record additional goodwill and deferred compensation charges with respect to prior acquisitions that involve as yet unearned contingent consideration. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Any of these events could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition, as in the case of our recent acquisitions, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A or Class B common stock. For example, as a consequence of the pooling of 35 Table of Contents interests rules, the securities issued in nine of the completed acquisitions described above were shares of Class B common stock, which have voting rights superior to our publicly traded Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. In the future, we may not be able to find other suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, as the recent decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. Moreover, it may be difficult for us to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to retain key technical and senior management personnel and attract additional key employees, which could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, in particular, our co founders, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III, and Vice President of Research & Development and Chief Technical Officer, Dr. Henry Samueli. We do not have employment agreements with these executives or any other key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of Dr. Nicholas or Dr. Samueli, or certain other key employees, would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly senior managers, digital circuit designers, mixed signal circuit designers and systems applications engineers. Competition for these employees is intense and the recent decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it more difficult to attract and retain such key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. In June 2001 we completed a stock option exchange offering for the purpose of reincentivizing and improving our ability to retain key employees. However, we cannot be certain that the stock option exchange program will result in increased retention of such employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in significant part on strategic relationships with certain of our customers. If we cannot maintain these relationships or if these customers develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solutions instead of buying our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the past, we have relied in significant part on our strategic relationships with certain customers who are technology leaders in our target markets. We intend to pursue and continue to form these strategic relationships in the future but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our partners frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to our strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development could impair our relationships with our strategic partners and negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that certain of our competitors or other parties may obtain, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We currently hold 79 issued United States patents and have filed over 800 additional United States patent applications. We cannot assure that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Moreover, 36 Table of Contents because we have participated in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our technology and patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on the adopted standards. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, some of our customers have entered into agreements with us that grant them the right to use our proprietary technology if we ever fail to fulfill our obligations, including product supply obligations, under those agreements, and if we do not correct this failure within a specified time period. Moreover, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our strategic customers into our own designs, and have certain obligations not to use or disclose their intellectual property without their authorization. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We are currently engaged in litigation, and in the future we may have to engage in additional litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation may be very expensive and time consuming, divert managements attention and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties and seriously harm our operating results. Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been engaged and currently we are engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. Although we are defending the pending litigation vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one of our patents. Any of these claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology. We may also have to indemnify certain customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third partys intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We depend on five independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. Five outside foundry subcontractors located in Asia manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices in current production. In September 1999 two of the foundries principal facilities were affected by a significant earthquake in Taiwan. As a consequence of this earthquake, they suffered power outages and equipment damage that impaired their wafer deliveries which, together with strong demand, resulted in wafer shortages and higher wafer pricing industrywide. If any of our foundries suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, encounters financial difficulties or in the event of any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may not be able to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. Even our current foundries would need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. If we choose to use a new foundry or process, it would typically take us several months to qualify the new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from it. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may still experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. 37 Table of Contents Because we rely on outside foundries with limited capacity, we face several significant risks, including: a lack of ensured wafer supply and potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices; limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and the unavailability of or potential delays in obtaining access to key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to certain of our customers, we do not have a long term volume purchase agreement or a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our foundries. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been reduced due to strong demand. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long term agreements with our four main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. Such a reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we primarily use four independent foundries, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured on a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. Any of these delays would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that any of our existing or new foundries would be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields. Furthermore, our foundries may not be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. Certain of our acquired companies have established relationships with foundries other than our five main foundries, and we are using these other foundries to produce the initial products of these acquired companies. We may utilize such foundries for other products in the future. In using new foundries, we will be subject to all of the same risks described in the foregoing paragraphs with respect to our current foundries. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration and that may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition will require us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and redesign certain products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs, and we have designed certain products to be manufactured in .35 micron, .22 micron, .18 micron and .13 micron geometry processes. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes. These difficulties resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationships with our foundries. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. 38 Table of Contents The loss of any of the third party subcontractors that assemble and test substantially all of our current products could disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales. We do not own or operate an assembly or test facility. Five third party subcontractors located in Asia assemble and test substantially all of our current products. Because we rely on third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance and control. This lack of control has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. We do not have long term agreements with any of these subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or in the event of any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. In using these new subcontractors, we will be subject to all of the same risks described in the foregoing paragraph. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and damage our reputation with current or prospective customers. Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by our suppliers, our customers and ourselves, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. We may be unable to manage future growth, which could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, and materially and adversely affect our business. During the past few years, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce, expanding from 1,069 employees as of December 31, 1999 to 2,807 employees as of December 31, 2001, including contract and temporary employees and employees who joined us as the result of acquisitions. This growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and other internal management systems. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. We will likely need to expand our facilities or relocate some or all of our employees or operations from time to time to support our growth. These relocations could result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of managements attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage expanding operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As our international business expands, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business, political and economic risks specific to our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside of the United States. In addition, approximately 23.3% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2001 was derived from sales to independent customers outside the United States. We also frequently ship products to our domestic 39 Table of Contents customers international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. In 1999 we established an international distribution center in Singapore and a design center in the Netherlands. Furthermore, as a result of various acquisitions, we also currently undertake design and development activities in India, Canada, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Israel. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. The recent terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad and resultant heightened security may adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: political, social and economic instability; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; acts of terrorism and international conflicts; trade restrictions; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; foreign technical standards; changes in tariffs; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Moreover, the seasonality of international sales and economic conditions in our primary overseas markets may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. Any one or more of the foregoing factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or require us to modify our current business practices significantly. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. We may seek to raise additional capital in the future through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or by borrowing money, and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next year or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. We could raise these funds by selling more equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A or Class B common stock. 40 Table of Contents Our California facilities and the facilities of two of the four independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our current products are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, two of the five outside foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices, are located in Taiwan, a country that recently experienced a significant earthquake and could be subject to additional earthquakes. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in Taiwan could materially disrupt our foundries production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. Disruptions in energy supplies could negatively affect our results of operations. Early in 2001 California experienced prolonged energy alerts and blackouts caused by disruption in energy supplies. As a consequence, California continues to experience substantially increased costs of electricity and natural gas. We are unsure whether these alerts and blackouts will reoccur or how severe they may become in the future. Several of our facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located, and we conduct research, development and engineering activities, in California. Many of our customers are also headquartered or have substantial operations in California. If we, or any of our major customers located in California, experience a sustained disruption in energy supplies, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by the FCC, other federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over each of our target markets. Although current FCC regulations and the laws and regulations of other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. As a result, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable operators or telephone companies to offer certain services or other aspects of their business may impede the sale of our products. For example, in the past we have experienced delays when products incorporating our chips failed to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere could also materially and adversely affect our business. Various export licensing requirements could materially and adversely affect our business or require us to significantly modify our current business practices. Various government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. We have applied for and received several export licenses under these regulations, but we cannot assure you that we will obtain any licenses for which we have currently applied or any licenses that we may apply for in the future. If we do not receive the required licenses, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at our foreign foundries or to ship these products to certain customers located outside of the United States. Certain of our directors, executive officers and their affiliates can control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, and accordingly we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without their approval. As of March 11, 2002 our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 25.0% of our outstanding common stock and 70.7% of the total voting control held by our shareholders. In particular, as of March 11, 2002 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III and Dr. Henry Samueli, beneficially owned a total of approximately 23.9% of our outstanding common stock and 68.8% of the total voting control held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of a majority of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common 41 Table of Contents stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons currently control the management of our business. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without the approval of these shareholders. These transactions include proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other purchases of our Class A common stock that could give our shareholders the opportunity to receive a higher price for their shares than the prevailing market price at the time of such purchases. Our stock price is highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since August 1, 2000 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $18.40 and as high as $274.75 per share. These fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; changes in investor perceptions; or changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other high technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation, and as noted in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements we have recently been sued in several purported securities class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated into a single action. We and our directors and officers have also been sued in purported shareholder derivative actions and other securities litigation. Although we believe that those lawsuits are without merit, an adverse determination could have a very significant effect on our business and results of operations, and could materially affect the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, it is likely that the lawsuits will divert managements attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect the price of our stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, we have in the past issued and may in the future issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, upon exercise of certain stock options, and for other purposes. Class B shares have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared with one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock). Our Board of Directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue such shares without a shareholder vote. It is possible that the provisions in our charter documents, the exercise of supervoting rights by holders of our Class B common stock, our officers ownership of a majority of the Class B common stock and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or additional shares of Class B common stock may prevent parties from acquiring us. In addition, these factors may discourage third parties from bidding for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price for this stock. Finally, these factors may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our non trading investment portfolio. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines; the guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. Debt securities are generally classified as held to maturity and are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. Our investment policy for held to maturity investments requires that all investments mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than one year. Primarily, these investments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Equity securities are generally classified as available for sale and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Included in our portfolio are equity investments in three publicly traded companies. As a result of recent market price volatility, we recorded a $22.0 million loss in 2001 related to these investments. As of December 31, 2001 the fair value of these publicly traded equity investments was $15.9 million. We have also invested in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered to be in the start up or development stage, or in funds that invest in such companies. We make investments in key business partners and other industry participants to establish important strategic relationships, expand existing relationships and achieve a return on our investment. These investments are inherently risky, as the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. As such, we could lose our entire investment in these companies. We recorded a $10.7 million loss in 2001 related to these privately held investments. As of December 31, 2001 the fair value of these investments was $35.6 million. Our debt currently consists of a financing arrangement for a bank credit facility of up to $90.0 million, a note payable in the amount of $21.1 million and capital leases in the amount of $7.0 million. With respect to the credit facility, we may choose the rate at which the credit facility bears interest at the rate of either (a) the higher of (i) 0.5% plus the Federal Reserve rate and (ii) the Bank of America prime rate or (b) LIBOR plus 1% (selected in one, two or three month periods). Interest is payable at either the selected interest period or quarterly. At December 31, 2001, the interest rate for the credit facility was 2.9%. We must pay a commitment fee of 0.35% on any unused balance of the credit facility. At December 31, 2001 $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility is due and payable December 20, 2002. The note payable to a significant customer bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1% per year, adjusted quarterly, and is due in December 2002. At December 31, 2001 the interest rate for the note was 3.59%. The note becomes immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain events. The customer has asserted that the entire principal amount of the note and all interest accrued thereon are currently due and payable and has filed a lawsuit to collect the obligation; we dispute that assertion and are vigorously defending the lawsuit. See Notes 11 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of our debt fluctuates based on changes in interest rates. 43 Table of Contents The following table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average fixed interest rates by expected maturity dates. Principal (notional) amounts by expected maturity were as follows: Current Long term Total Fair Value (In thousands, except interest rates) December 31, 2001 Cash equivalents $ 37,230 $ $ 37,230 $ 37,225 Weighted average rate 2.34 % 2.34 % Marketable securities $ 136,028 $ 109,767 $ 245,795 $ 249,033 Weighted average rate 4.00 % 4.67 % 4.30 % Total portfolio (held to maturity) $ 173,258 $ 109,767 $ 283,025 $ 286,258 Weighted average rate 3.65 % 4.67 % 4.04 % Credit facility $ 90,000 $ $ 90,000 $ 90,000 December 31, 2001 interest rate 2.90 % 2.90 % Capital leases $ 2,989 $ 4,006 $ 6,995 $ 6,995 December 31, 2001 interest rate 7.86 % 7.86 % 7.86 % Note payable $ 21,051 $ $ 21,051 $ 21,051 December 31, 2001 interest rate 3.59 % 3.59 % December 31, 2000 Cash equivalents $ 60,750 $ $ 60,750 $ 60,721 Weighted average rate 6.62 % 6.62 % Marketable securities $ 77,682 $ 1,984 $ 79,666 $ 79,668 Weighted average rate 6.19 % 7.33 % 6.22 % Total portfolio (held to maturity) $ 138,432 $ 1,984 $ 140,416 $ 140,389 Weighted average rate 6.38 % 7.33 % 6.39 % Capital leases $ 2,598 $ $ 2,598 $ 2,598 December 31, 2000 interest rate 11.25 % 11.25 % Note payable $ 21,051 $ $ 21,051 $ 21,051 December 31, 2000 interest rate 7.40 % 7.40 % 
 
