Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, and the Risk Factors section at the end of this Item 7 as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment. In this Report, all share numbers and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect our 2 for 1 stock splits, each in the form of a 100% stock dividend, effective February 17, 1999 and February 11, 2000. Overview Broadcom Corporation is the leading provider of highly integrated silicon solutions that enable broadband communications and networking of voice, video and data services. Using proprietary technologies and advanced design methodologies, Broadcom designs, develops and supplies complete system on a chip solutions and related hardware and software applications for every major broadband communications market. Our diverse product portfolio includes solutions for digital cable and satellite set top boxes; cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; VoIP, gateway and telephony systems; broadband network processors; and SystemI/O server solutions. From Broadcoms inception in 1991 through 1994, we were primarily engaged in product development and the establishment of strategic customer and foundry relationships. During that period, we generated the majority of our revenue from development work performed for key customers. We began shipping our products in 1994, and subsequently our revenue has increased predominantly through sales of our semiconductor products. We intend to continue to enter into development contracts with key customers, but expect that future development revenue will constitute a small percentage of our total revenue. We also generate a small percentage of our product revenue from the licensing of software and the provision of software support services and from licenses of system level reference designs. We utilize independent foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products. Net Revenue. The percentage of our net revenue derived from independent customers located outside of the United States was approximately 25.1% for 2002, 23.3% for 2001 and 20.3% for 2000. All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. From time to time, our key customers have placed large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect these fluctuations will continue. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Hewlett Packard(1) 14.8 % 14.1 % * % Motorola 12.1 18.2 23.2 Dell 11.3 * * 3Com * * 15.1 Cisco * * 14.1 Five largest customers as a group 52.3 % 54.9 % 61.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. (1) Includes sales to Compaq, which was acquired by Hewlett Packard in May 2002, for all periods presented. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2003 and for the foreseeable future. These customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. 24 Table of Contents Gross Margin. Our gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volumes; the position of our products in their respective life cycles; the effects of competition and competitive pricing strategies; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs and overhead costs such as prototyping expenses; amortization of purchased intangible assets; stock based compensation expense; licensing and royalty arrangements; and the mix of product revenue and development revenue. Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to six months or more, with an additional three to nine months or more before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Moreover, in light of the continuing significant economic slowdown in the technology sector, it may take significantly longer than three to nine months before customers commence volume production of equipment incorporating some of our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month. If anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. A key element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. During 2002, 2001 and 2000 we completed 13 acquisitions that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, for original aggregate equity consideration of $6.349 billion. In 2002 we acquired Mobilink Telecom, Inc., a supplier of chipsets and reference designs for use in cellular phones, cellular modem cards and wireless PDAs. In 2001 we acquired Visiontech Ltd., a supplier of digital video/ audio MPEG 2 compression and decompression chips; ServerWorks Corporation, a supplier of high performance system input/ output integrated circuits for servers, workstations and storage platforms; KimaLink, a developer of integrated circuits for wireless data communications; and PortaTec Corporation, a developer of integrated solutions for smart mobile devices. In 2000 we acquired Innovent Systems, Inc., a developer of radio frequency integrated circuits for wireless data communications; Puyallup Integrated Circuit Company, Inc., a provider of integrated circuit design services; Altima Communications, Inc., a supplier of networking integrated circuits for the small to medium sized business networking market; NewPort Communications, Inc., a supplier of mixed signal integrated circuits for the high speed communications infrastructure market; Silicon Spice Inc., a developer of communications processors and other technology for high density voice, fax and data packet transmission over wide area networks; Element 14, Inc., a developer of high port density, low power digital subscriber line chipsets, software and communications processor technology; Allayer Communications, a developer of high performance enterprise and optical networking communications chips; and SiByte, Inc., a developer of high performance microprocessor solutions for broadband networking. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase transaction, the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired 25 Table of Contents companies commencing as of their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, during 2000 we completed four acquisitions that were accounted for using the pooling of interests method of accounting. These acquisitions included Digital Furnace Corporation, a developer of communications algorithms and software that increase the capacity of existing broadband networks for interactive services; BlueSteel Networks, Inc., a developer of high performance Internet security processors for e commerce and VPN applications; Stellar Semiconductor, Inc., a developer of 3D graphics technology; and Pivotal Technologies Corporation, a developer of high performance communications links for both wired and wireless environments. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a pooling of interests transaction, our historical consolidated financial statements and the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for prior periods have been restated to include the operations of these four companies as if they had been combined with our company at the beginning of the first period presented. Included in restated net revenue and net loss for 2000 were revenue and net losses, aggregating $300,000 and $8.8 million, respectively, from the four pooling of interests transactions completed in that year and incurred prior to the respective closings of those transactions. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, restructuring costs, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue, Receivables and Inventory. We recognize product revenue upon concluding that all of the fundamental criteria for revenue recognition have been met. The criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment, except for shipments to stocking distributors where revenue is recognized upon sale to the end customer. In addition, we record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and allowances such as competitive pricing programs and rebates. Additional reductions to revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We provide reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, use of materials and service delivery costs incurred in correcting any product failure. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required, which could reduce gross margins. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. The purchase method of accounting for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the 26 Table of Contents net tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in process research and development, or IPR&D. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets impact future amortization, and the amount assigned to IPR&D is expensed immediately. If the assumptions and estimates used to allocate the purchase price are not correct, purchase price adjustments or future asset impairment charges could be required. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) another significant slowdown in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry or a continuation or an increase in severity of the existing significant economic slowdown or (iii) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. We evaluate these assets used in operations, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. In the process of our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business. It is reasonably possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Strategic Investments. We have made strategic investments in publicly traded and privately held companies for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. Strategic investments with less than a 20% voting interest are generally carried at cost. We will use the equity method to account for strategic investments in which we have a voting interest of 20% to 50% or in which we otherwise have the ability to exercise significant influence. Under the equity method, the investment is originally recorded at cost and adjusted to recognize our share of net earnings or losses of the investee, limited to the extent of our investment in, advances to and financial guarantees for the investee that create additional basis in the investee. The share prices of the publicly traded securities have been volatile, and the value of the non publicly traded securities is difficult to determine. We periodically review these investments for other than temporary declines in fair value based on the specific identification method and write down investments to their fair value, with a corresponding loss recorded in other expense in the statement of operations, when an other than temporary decline has occurred. We generally believe an other than temporary decline has occurred when the fair value of the investment is below the carrying value for two consecutive quarters, absent evidence to the contrary. Fair values for investments in public companies are determined using their quoted market prices. Fair values for investments in privately held companies are estimated based upon one or more of the following: pricing models using historical and forecasted financial information, the values of recent rounds of financing, and or quoted market prices of comparable public companies. Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of the non publicly traded securities held by us, had there been an active market for the equity securities, the carrying values might have been materially different than the amounts reported. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of companies in which we have made such investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying values of the investments that may not be reflected in the investments current carrying values and which could require a future impairment charge. Deferred Taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. As a result of our recent cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carryback potential, we recently concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets was appropriate. If, in the future, we believe that 27 Table of Contents we will realize a deferred tax asset which currently has a valuation allowance, we would record a reduction to income tax expense in the period of such determination. Restructuring Charges. Over the last several quarters we have undertaken, and we may continue to undertake, significant restructuring initiatives, which have required us to develop formalized plans for exiting certain business activities. We have had to record estimated expenses for lease cancellations, long term asset write downs, severance and outplacement costs and other restructuring costs. Given the significance of, and the timing of the execution of such activities, this process is complex and involves periodic reassessments of estimates made at the time the original decisions were made. Through 2002, the accounting rules for restructuring costs and asset impairments required us to record provisions and charges when we had a formal and committed plan. In calculating the cost to dispose of our excess facilities, we had to estimate our future space requirements and the timing of exiting excess facilities and then estimate for each location the future lease and operating costs to be paid until the lease is terminated and the amount, if any, of sublease income. This required us to estimate the timing and costs of each lease to be terminated, including the amount of operating costs and the rate at which we might be able to sublease the site. To form our estimates for these costs, we performed an assessment of the affected facilities and considered the current market conditions for each site. Our assumptions on future space requirements, the operating costs until termination or the offsetting sublease revenues may turn out to be incorrect, and our actual costs may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional costs or to reverse previously recorded liabilities. Our policies require us to periodically evaluate the adequacy of the remaining liabilities under our restructuring initiatives. As management continues to evaluate the business, there may be additional charges for new restructuring activities as well as changes in estimates to amounts previously recorded. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 55.8 58.0 44.2 Gross profit 44.2 42.0 55.8 Operating expense: Research and development 42.6 46.4 22.9 Selling, general and administrative 15.3 16.2 9.4 Stock based compensation 33.1 50.3 10.5 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 2.1 2.8 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 116.8 122.9 Restructuring costs 11.1 3.6 Litigation settlement costs 0.3 0.3 Amortization of goodwill 78.3 12.5 In process research and development 11.4 65.1 Merger related costs 0.4 Loss from operations (177.1 ) (290.2 ) (65.1 ) Interest income, net 1.1 2.4 2.2 Other expense, net (3.0 ) (3.2 ) (0.2 ) Loss before income taxes (179.0 ) (291.0 ) (63.1 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 27.5 (5.9 ) (0.4 ) Net loss (206.5 )% (285.1 )% (62.7 )% 28 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 Net Revenue. Our revenue consists principally of product revenue generated by sales of our semiconductor products, and to a much lesser extent, from development revenue generated under development contracts with our customers and licenses of software and the provision of software support services. Net revenue is revenue less provisions for returns and allowances. Net revenue for 2002 was $1.083 billion, an increase of $121.1 million or 12.6% as compared with net revenue of $961.8 million for 2001. Net revenue was reduced by $25.5 million for 2001 to account for the fair value of the performance based warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock earned by certain customers in connection with purchase and development agreements that we assumed in prior acquisitions. No comparable performance based warrants were earned in 2002, and there were no remaining outstanding performance based warrants at December 31, 2002. The increase in net revenue for 2002 as compared to 2001 resulted primarily from an increase in volume shipments of our enterprise networking and SystemI/O server products, as well as increased contributions from our emerging businesses, including those in the areas of wireless local area networking, Bluetooth, personal video recording and mobile communications applications. This increase was offset in part by a decrease in shipments of our semiconductor products for digital cable set top boxes and lower average selling prices on cable modem products. We experienced modest sequential quarterly revenue growth in 2002 and expect revenue to continue to grow in the first quarter of 2003. Gross Profit. Gross profit represents net revenue less the cost of revenue. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing the finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with assembly, packaging, test and quality assurance for semiconductor products, prototyping costs, amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, and contracted development work. Gross profit for 2002 was $478.6 million or 44.2% of net revenue, an increase of $74.5 million or 18.4% from gross profit of $404.1 million or 42.0% of net revenue for 2001. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from increased volumes and improved yields which reduced subcontractor costs, increased absorption of fixed overhead costs as a result of the increased volumes, and lower stock based compensation expense, offset in part by competitive pricing strategies and amortization of purchased intangible assets. Approximately $12.9 million and $15.9 million of stock based compensation expense were included in cost of revenue for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Approximately $56.0 million and $51.7 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets were included in cost of revenue for 2002 and 2001, respectively. At December 31, 2002 the unamortized balance of purchased intangible assets that will be amortized to cost of revenue in the future was $21.4 million, of which $16.1 million and $5.3 million are expected to be amortized in 2003 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that gross profit will continue to be impacted by the non cash amortization of acquisition related charges. In addition, gross profit has been and will likely continue to be impacted in the future by competitive pricing strategies, fluctuations in the volume of our product sales, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs, and possible future changes in product mix and the introduction of certain lower margin products, among other factors. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, costs related to engineering design tools, subcontracting costs, systems level testing and prototyping costs, and facilities expenses. Research and development expense does not include expense amounts associated with stock based compensation of employees engaged in research and development or expense amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets related to research and development. Research and development expense for 2002 was $461.8 million or 42.6% of net revenue, an increase of $15.2 million or 3.4% as compared with research and development expense of $446.6 million or 46.4% of net revenue for 2001. The increase in absolute dollars resulted primarily from the addition of personnel through our acquisition of Mobilink, certain strategic new hires, and investment in design tools for the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, offset in part by cost 29 Table of Contents reductions from the restructuring plan that we began implementing in the second quarter of 2001. As a result of the prolonged significant downturn in the semiconductor industry, in October 2002 we announced a new restructuring plan that we began implementing in the fourth quarter of 2002. This plan focuses on cost reductions and operating efficiencies, including workforce reductions. As a result of our October 2002 restructuring plan, we anticipate a slight decrease in research and development expense in the near term. Notwithstanding the anticipated immediate impact of our restructuring plan, based upon past experience, we anticipate that research and development expense in absolute dollars will continue to increase over the long term as a result of the growth and diversification of the markets we serve, new product opportunities and any expansion into new markets and technologies. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, professional and legal fees, facilities expenses, communications expenses and trade show expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense does not include expense amounts associated with stock based compensation of administrative employees or expense amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets. Selling, general and administrative expense for 2002 was $165.3 million or 15.3% of net revenue, an increase of $9.8 million or 6.3% as compared with selling, general and administrative expense of $155.4 million or 16.2% of net revenue for 2001. This increase reflected higher personnel related costs resulting from the addition of certain strategic new hires as well as increased facilities expenses and legal fees, offset in part by cost reductions from our restructuring plan. As a result of our October 2002 restructuring plan, we anticipate a slight decrease in personnel related selling, general and administrative expense in the near term. Notwithstanding the anticipated immediate impact of our restructuring plan, based upon past experience, we anticipate that over the long term selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars will continue to increase to support any expansion of our operations through indigenous growth and acquisitions, as a result of periodic changes in our infrastructure to support any increased headcount, acquisition and integration activities, and international operations, and in view of the volume of current litigation. Stock Based Compensation Expense. Stock based compensation expense generally represents the amortization of deferred compensation as well as expense related to options subject to variable accounting. Deferred compensation is presented as a reduction of shareholders equity and is amortized ratably over the respective vesting periods of the applicable options, generally three to five years. Deferred compensation primarily represents the difference between the fair value of our common stock at the measurement date of each acquisition and the exercise price of the unvested stock options assumed in the acquisition. Additional deferred compensation related to earned contingent consideration is measured and recorded at the date the contingency is met. We recorded approximately $2.2 million of net deferred compensation for 2002 and $377.9 million of deferred compensation for 2001, primarily in connection with stock options assumed in our acquisitions. Approximately $103.0 million and $84.6 million of deferred compensation was eliminated due to employee terminations during 2002 and 2001, respectively. Stock based compensation expense for 2002 was $359.8 million or 33.1% of net revenue, a decrease of $124.2 million or 25.7% as compared with stock based compensation expense of $484.0 million or 50.3% of net revenue for 2001. The decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to the elimination of deferred compensation due to the termination of certain employees and the decrease in our year end stock price, which is used to remeasure stock based compensation for options subject to variable accounting. Approximately $12.9 million and $15.9 million of additional stock based compensation expense were classified as cost of revenue for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Approximately $47.0 million and $11.1 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, of additional stock based compensation expense were classified as restructuring costs resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of the employees terminated in connection with our restructuring plans and the acceleration of the vesting period of certain stock options of certain terminated employees as required by their assumed option agreements. Outstanding stock options assumed in certain acquisitions are subject to variable accounting and will be revalued quarterly over their vesting periods until the earlier of (i) all of the performance goals have been met, (ii) the time period in which all of the performance goals may be met has lapsed, whether the goals have been satisfied or not, or (iii) the options are exercised. If any of the applicable options are forfeited, cancelled or expire, any related previously recorded stock based compensation expense will be reversed. In addition, if there is a 30 Table of Contents decrease in our stock price at the end of each quarterly reporting period prior to the stock based compensation charge becoming fixed, previously recorded stock based compensation expense will be reversed. Due to the decrease in our stock price during the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded approximately $7.0 million in reversals of previously recorded stock based compensation expense related to stock options subject to variable accounting in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation, or FIN, No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation An Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, or FIN 44, and FIN No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans, or FIN 28. During 2001 we recorded approximately $35.0 million in stock based compensation expense, related to stock options subject to variable accounting in accordance with FIN 44 and FIN 28. These charges and reversals have been and in the future are expected to continue to be based on the amount by which our Class A common stock closing price at the end of the reporting period, or at the date of exercise, if earlier, exceeds the exercise price of the stock options. Depending upon movements in the market value of our Class A common stock, the variable accounting treatment of certain stock options may result in significant additional stock based compensation expense in future periods. At December 31, 2002 options to purchase 4,932,916 shares of Class A common stock were subject to variable accounting, of which 1,726,354 options were vested and 3,206,562 options were unvested. These options have a weighted average per share exercise price of $7.99 and a remaining vesting period of approximately two to three years. In connection with certain of our acquisitions, if specified future internal performance goals are satisfied, the aggregate consideration for these acquisitions will be increased. At December 31, 2002 a total of 3,534,177 shares of Class A common stock were reserved for future issuance if the remaining internal performance goals established in connection with our acquisitions of ServerWorks Corporation and Mobilink are met. If the remaining internal performance goals had been met at December 31, 2002, additional equity consideration of approximately $53.2 million, based on the closing price of our Class A common stock on December 31, 2002, would have been recorded and allocated between goodwill, stock based compensation and deferred compensation. The amount of actual additional equity consideration to be recorded will vary depending on which, if any, of the remaining internal performance goals are met and the actual market values of our Class A common stock on the dates such internal performance goals are achieved. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets. Purchased intangible assets primarily include completed technology and customer relationships, contracts and backlog, and are amortized on a straight line basis over the estimated remaining useful lives of the respective assets, ranging from one to three years. The amortization of purchased intangible assets, excluding completed technology, for 2002 was $22.4 million or 2.1% of net revenue, a decrease of $4.8 million or 17.7%, as compared with $27.2 million or 2.8% of net revenue for 2001. The decrease resulted primarily from the reclassification, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142, of assembled workforce as goodwill, which is no longer being amortized, offset partially by the amortization of other purchased intangibles. At December 31, 2002 the unamortized balance of purchased intangible assets that will be amortized to future operating expense was $2.6 million, all of which is expected to be amortized in 2003. In addition, approximately $56.0 million and $51.7 million of amortization of completed technology were classified as cost of revenue for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. During the three months ended December 31, 2002, we performed an assessment in accordance with SFAS 142 of the carrying value of the goodwill recorded in connection with our various acquisitions. In accordance with SFAS 142, we compared the carrying value of each reporting unit to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair value of our reporting units primarily using the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as verification of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. In addition, publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of our company was also considered. An impairment loss was recognized for reporting units where the carrying value of their goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill. Based on this assessment and an independent valuation, we recorded a charge of $1.241 billion during 2002 to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our reporting units. The primary factors resulting in the impairment charge were the continued significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry, affecting both our 31 Table of Contents current operations and expected future revenue, as well as the decline in valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our stock. In addition, in response to current market conditions, we initiated a restructuring program in the fourth quarter of 2002 that included significant headcount reductions, and we decreased our investment in certain target markets that were either performing below our expectations or had low near term growth potential. As a result, we revised our forecasts of future operating results, which were in turn used in calculating the estimated fair values of the reporting units. In December 2002 we purchased a patent portfolio related to integrated circuit technology for approximately $24.0 million. Although the patents purchased broaden our technology portfolio, the purchase price was expensed immediately upon acquisition as we did not have plans to currently utilize the patents 1) in our ongoing operations; 2) to generate future cash flow; or 3) for resale to a third party. In accordance with SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, since it is not possible to reasonably forecast cash flows expected to be generated or saved as a result of the acquired patent portfolio, the patent portfolio was determined to be fully impaired at the date of acquisition. During 2001 we performed an assessment of the carrying values of intangible assets recorded in connection with our various acquisitions. The assessment was performed in accordance with SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed of, or SFAS 121, due to the significant economic slowdown and the reduction in near term demand in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry. As a result of the assessment, we concluded that the decline in market conditions within the industry was significant and other than temporary. Based on this assessment and an independent valuation, we recorded a charge of $1.182 billion to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. For further discussion of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, see Notes 1 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Costs. From the second quarter of 2001 through the third quarter of 2002, we implemented a plan (the 2001 Restructuring Plan) to restructure our operations in response to the challenging economic climate. As a result of the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry, we announced an additional restructuring program that we began implementing in the fourth quarter of 2002 (the 2002 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring costs consist of the costs associated with the implementation of these restructuring plans. These restructuring plans focused on cost reductions and operating efficiencies, including workforce reductions and consolidation of excess facilities, and have resulted in certain business unit realignments. We recorded restructuring costs totaling $119.7 million and $34.3 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, which were classified as operating expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We may record additional restructuring costs in 2003 as we continue to implement the 2002 plan. Approximately 477 and 160 employees were terminated across all of our business functions and geographic regions during 2002 and 2001, respectively. In addition, headcount was reduced through attrition and reductions in the number of temporary and contract workers employed by us. We recorded workforce reduction charges for 2002 and 2001 of approximately $66.5 million and $16.1 million, respectively, related to severance and fringe benefits. Included in these amounts are approximately $47.0 million and $11.1 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, of stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of certain terminated employees and the acceleration of the vesting period of certain options of certain terminated employees as required by their assumed option agreements. During 2002 and 2001 we recorded charges of approximately $53.2 million and $18.2 million, respectively, for the consolidation of excess facilities. These charges related primarily to lease terminations, non cancelable lease costs and write offs of leasehold improvements. 32 Table of Contents Activity and liability balances related to the 2002 and 2001 Restructuring Plans are as follows: 2001 Restructuring Plan 2002 Restructuring Plan Consolidation Consolidation Workforce of Excess Workforce of Excess Reductions Facilities Reductions Facilities Total Charged to expense $ 16,100 $ 18,181 $ $ $ 34,281 Non cash costs (11,070 ) (1,638 ) (12,708 ) Cash payments (4,906 ) (6,073 ) (10,979 ) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2001 124 10,470 10,594 Charged to expense 1,411 30,454 65,048 22,767 119,680 Liabilities assumed in acquisition(1) 6,815 6,815 Non cash costs (135 ) (4,868 ) (46,821 ) (1,495 ) (53,319 ) Cash payments (1,400 ) (6,502 ) (16,683 ) (3,494 ) (28,079 ) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2002 $ $ 29,554 $ 1,544 $ 24,593 $ 55,691 (1) Although not related to the 2002 or 2001 Restructuring Plans, we assumed additional liabilities of approximately $6.8 million in connection with the Mobilink acquisition for the consolidation of excess facilities, relating primarily to lease terminations, non cancelable lease costs and write offs of leasehold improvements. The liabilities related to the Mobilink acquisition have been classified as restructuring liabilities for presentation in the consolidated balance sheets. The excess facilities consolidation costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. The goal of our 2002 restructuring program is to reduce operating expense by approximately $16 million per quarter from the third quarter 2002 level, commencing in the first quarter of 2003. We cannot assure that our restructuring programs will achieve all of the expense reductions and other benefits we anticipate. In addition, anticipated savings from reduced headcount or facility consolidations have been and may in the future be mitigated by subsequent increases to headcount and subsequent facilities additions related to our operating requirements. Litigation Settlement Costs. Litigation settlement costs of approximately $3.0 million were incurred in both 2002 and 2001. Amortization of Goodwill. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquired company and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. There was no amortization of goodwill recorded in 2002. Amortization of goodwill for 2001 was $753.0 million or 78.3% of net revenue. The significant change in the amortization of goodwill resulted from the impact of adopting new accounting standards. In June 2001 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141, and SFAS 142, both effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under these new rules, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 142 was immediately applicable to any acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. As required by SFAS 142, we ceased amortizing goodwill of $2.254 billion beginning January 1, 2002. Included in this amount is $12.1 million of assembled workforce previously classified as purchased intangible assets, which was reclassified as goodwill effective January 1, 2002 as required by SFAS 142. In Process Research and Development. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. There was no IPR&D recorded in connection with the 2002 acquisition. IPR&D totaled $109.7 million for the four purchase transactions completed in 2001. 33 Table of Contents The fair value of IPR&D for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present value at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance upon core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based upon forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles and market penetration and growth rates. The IPR&D charge includes only the fair value of IPR&D performed as of the acquisition date. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets, and the fair values of IPR&D to be completed and future research and development are included in goodwill. We believe the amounts recorded as IPR&D, as well as developed technology, represent fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects at the time of the respective acquisitions. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations for our significant purchase transactions completed in 2001: Weighted Average Average Estimated Risk Estimated Estimated Cost to Adjusted Percent Time to Complete Discount IPR&D Purchase Transaction Development Projects Complete Complete (In millions) Rate (In millions) Visiontech Video compression integrated circuits 60 % 1 year $ 5.2 30 35 % $ 30.4 ServerWorks High performance SystemI/O integrated circuits for servers 45 % 1.5 years 21.2 29 34 % 79.3 We completed all of the Visiontech development projects as expected in 2001. ServerWorks completed two development projects during 2002. Approximately $8 million over the previous estimate was required to complete these projects. ServerWorks reallocated the resources on the remaining project to focus on next generation semiconductor products that it believes are better aligned with future demand. Except as noted above, actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the in process projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Failure to achieve the expected levels of revenue and net income from these products will negatively impact the return on investment expected at the time that the acquisitions were completed and may potentially result in impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets. Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on average cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, less interest accrued on our debt and capital lease obligations. Interest income, net, for 2002 was $12.2 million as compared with $23.0 million for 2001. The decrease in 2002 resulted primarily from an overall decline in both our cash and investment balances and the interest rates thereon. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. Other expense, net, for 2002 was $32.8 million or 3.0% of net revenue, an increase of $1.9 million as compared with $30.9 million or 3.2% of net revenue for 2001. In 2002 and 2001 we recorded losses of approximately $37.8 million and $32.7 million, respectively, representing other than temporary declines in the values of certain of our strategic investments. The losses for 2002 were offset in part by approximately $4.6 million in gains realized on sales of an investment in a publicly held company. 34 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of approximately $297.6 million for 2002 and a tax benefit of $56.7 million for 2001, which resulted in effective tax rates of approximately (15.3)% for 2002 and 2.0% for 2001. The federal statutory rate was 35% for both periods. The differences between our effective tax rates for 2002 and 2001 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D, amortization and impairment of goodwill and other acquisition related expenses from the 13 purchase transactions completed during 2002, 2001 and 2000, as well as increases in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2002 and 2001 we had recorded valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in the amounts of approximately $990.2 million and $375.1 million, respectively, reflecting an increase in the valuation allowance during 2002 of approximately $615.1 million. During 2002 we concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets was appropriate as a result of our recent cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carryback potential. Years Ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 Net Revenue. Net revenue for 2001 was $961.8 million, a decrease of $134.3 million or 12.3% as compared with net revenue of $1.096 billion for 2000. Net revenue was reduced by $25.5 million and $38.6 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively, to account for the fair value of the performance based warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock earned by certain customers in connection with purchase and development agreements that we assumed in prior acquisitions. The decline in net revenue resulted primarily from a decrease in volume shipments of our semiconductor products for the high speed networking market, digital cable set top boxes and cable modems, as our customers faced slower demand for their products and continued to work through their inventory issues, offset in part by shipments of SystemI/O server products. Due to the significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and semiconductor industry in 2001, we experienced a significant slowdown in customer orders, as well as an increase in the number of order cancellations and reschedulings of backlog. Gross Profit. Gross profit for 2001 was $404.1 million or 42.0% of net revenue, a decrease of $207.9 million or 34.0% from gross profit of $611.9 million or 55.8% of net revenue for 2000. The decrease in gross profit was mainly attributable to the decrease in the volume of semiconductor product shipments as well as non cash acquisition related charges, including amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock based compensation expense. This decrease was offset in part by cost reductions in 2001. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue for 2001 compared with 2000 was primarily a result of the non cash acquisition related charges and, to a lesser extent, decreased absorption of manufacturing overhead due to lower production volumes and shifts in our product mix. Approximately $15.9 million and $4.6 million of stock based compensation expense were included in cost of revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately $51.7 million and $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets were included in cost of revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense for 2001 was $446.6 million or 46.4% of net revenue, an increase of $196.0 million or 78.2% as compared with research and development expense of $250.7 million or 22.9% of net revenue for 2000. This increase was primarily due to the addition of personnel through acquisitions and internal hiring, investment in design tools for the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, and the cost of additional facilities required to support the increase in headcount. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense for 2001 was $155.4 million or 16.2% of net revenue, an increase of $52.1 million or 50.5% as compared with selling, general and administrative expense of $103.3 million or 9.4% of net revenue for 2000. This increase reflected higher personnel related costs resulting from the addition of sales and marketing, senior management and administrative personnel through acquisitions and internal hiring as well as increased facilities expenses and legal fees. Stock Based Compensation Expense. We recorded approximately $377.9 million of deferred compensation for 2001 and $1.242 billion of deferred compensation for 2000, primarily in connection with stock options assumed 35 Table of Contents in our acquisitions. Included in the 2001 amount is $24.8 million of deferred compensation recorded during 2001 when certain Allayer, SiByte and ServerWorks performance goals were met. Approximately $5.0 million of this amount was expensed immediately. Approximately $84.6 million and $6.2 million of deferred compensation were eliminated due to employee terminations during 2001 and 2000, respectively. Stock based compensation expense for 2001 was $484.0 million or 50.3% of net revenue, an increase of $368.7 million or 319.8% as compared with stock based compensation expense of $115.3 million or 10.5% of net revenue for 2000. Approximately $15.9 million and $4.6 million of additional stock based compensation expense were classified as cost of revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately $11.1 million of additional stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of certain terminated employees was classified as restructuring costs for 2001. Approximately $0.3 million of additional stock based compensation expense was classified as merger related costs for 2000. The significant increase in stock based compensation expense for 2001 related primarily to stock options assumed in the four purchase transactions completed during 2001 as well as the full year impact of the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000, all of which were accounted for in accordance with FIN 44. Approximately $35.0 million of the stock based compensation expense recorded for 2001 related to stock options subject to variable accounting. This expense was calculated based on the amount by which our Class A common stock closing price at the end of the reporting period, or at the date of exercise, if earlier, exceeded the exercise price of the stock options. Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. In connection with the four purchase transactions completed during 2001 and contingent consideration earned from previous acquisitions, we recorded approximately $962.6 million of additional goodwill and $129.3 million of purchased intangible assets for 2001. For the eight purchase transactions completed during 2000, we recorded approximately $3.351 billion of goodwill and $50.3 million of purchased intangible assets for 2000. The amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets for 2001 was $780.2 million or 81.1% of net revenue, an increase of $642.0 million or 464.4% as compared with $138.2 million or 12.6% of net revenue for 2000. In addition, approximately $51.7 million and $2.3 million of amortization of purchased intangible assets was classified as cost of revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. In connection with our acquisitions of Allayer, SiByte and ServerWorks, we recorded $180.3 million of additional goodwill during 2001 when certain internal performance goals were met. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2001 we performed an assessment of the carrying values of intangible assets recorded in connection with our various acquisitions. The assessment was performed in accordance with SFAS 121, due to the significant economic slowdown and the reduction in near term demand in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry. As a result of the assessment, we concluded that the decline in market conditions within the industry was significant and other than temporary. Based on this assessment and an independent valuation, we recorded a charge of $1.182 billion to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. See Notes 1 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In Process Research and Development. IPR&D totaled $109.7 million for the four purchase transactions completed in 2001, as compared with $713.1 million for the eight purchase transactions completed in 2000. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations for our significant purchase transactions completed in 2000: Weighted Average Average Estimated Risk Estimated Estimated Cost to Adjusted Percent Time to Complete Discount IPR&D Purchase Transaction Development Projects Complete Complete (In millions) Rate (In millions) Innovent RF integrated circuits for wireless 43 % 1.5 years $ 6.9 30 35 % $ 41.7 Altima Ethernet physical layer transceivers 47 % 1 year 2.9 30 35 % 4.0 NewPort Integrated circuits for optical communications equipment 70 % 1 year 3.7 30 35 % 198.5 Silicon Spice Communications processors 84 % 1 year 10.0 30 % 219.3 Element 14 Integrated circuits used in DSL 49 % 1 year 13.2 40 45 % 64.6 Allayer Integrated circuits for wide area and Ethernet switching applications 43 % 1.5 years 5.0 31 36 % 11.6 SiByte Network processors 42 % 1.5 years 31.4 30 35 % 173.4 We completed all five of the Innovent development projects by the end of 2001. An additional $16.9 million over the previous estimate was required to complete these projects. We completed three development projects of Altima as expected during 2001. We reallocated the resources on the remaining project to focus on next generation semiconductor products that we believed were better aligned with future demand. We completed all eight of the NewPort development projects as expected during 2001. An additional $4.7 million over the previous estimate was required to complete these projects. We completed the Silicon Spice development project as expected in 2001. We completed one of the Element 14 development projects during 2001. We reallocated the resources on the remaining project to focus on next generation semiconductor products that we believed were better aligned with future demand. We completed one of the Allayer projects as expected during 2001. We reallocated the resources on the two remaining projects to focus on next generation semiconductor products that we believed were better aligned with future demand. We completed one of the SiByte development projects during 2002. One additional project, which is currently approximately 65% complete, is expected to be completed during 2003, and we estimate the cost to complete this project will be approximately $14.0 million. Except as noted above, actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Restructuring Costs. In the second quarter of 2001 we announced and began implementing a plan to restructure our operations in response to the then current challenging economic climate. This restructuring plan resulted in certain business unit realignments, workforce reductions and consolidation of excess facilities. For 2001 we recorded restructuring costs totaling $34.3 million, which were classified as operating expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Through December 31, 2001 the restructuring plan had resulted in termination of the employment of approximately 160 employees across all business functions and geographic regions. We recorded workforce 37 Table of Contents reduction charges of approximately $16.1 million related to severance and fringe benefits. Included in this amount is approximately $11.1 million of stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of the terminated employees. In addition, headcount was reduced through attrition and reductions in the number of temporary and contract workers employed by us. Through December 31, 2001 we recorded charges of approximately $18.2 million for the consolidation of excess facilities. The charges related primarily to lease terminations and non cancelable lease costs. Litigation Settlement Costs. Litigation settlement costs of approximately $3.0 million were incurred for 2001. No comparable litigation settlement costs were incurred for 2000. Merger Related Costs. In connection with the pooling of interests transactions in 2000, merger related costs of approximately $4.7 million were incurred. No merger related costs were incurred for 2001 as there were no business combinations accounted for as poolings of interests. Merger related costs consist primarily of transaction costs, such as fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other related fees and expenses, incurred in acquisitions as well as certain restructuring costs related to the disposition of duplicative facilities and assets and the write down of unutilized assets. Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net, for 2001 was $23.0 million as compared with $24.3 million for 2000. The decrease for 2001 was the result of interest expense incurred on debt assumed from our ServerWorks acquisition and an overall decline in interest rates on our investments, partially offset by increased cash balances available to invest resulting from the cash generated by operations, cash balances assumed in acquisitions, and cash received from the exercise of employee stock options. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. For 2001, other expense, net, was $30.9 million as compared with $2.7 million for 2000. During 2001 we recorded a loss of approximately $32.7 million representing an other than temporary decline in the value of our strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded income tax benefits of approximately $56.7 million for 2001 and $4.0 million for 2000, which resulted in effective tax rates of approximately 2.0% for 2001 and 0.6% for 2000. The federal statutory rate was 35% for both periods. The differences between our effective tax rates for 2001 and 2000 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D, impairment of goodwill and other acquisition related expenses from the twelve purchase transactions completed during 2001 and 2000, as well as the effects of certain 2001 losses recorded without tax benefit. At December 31, 2001 and 2000 we provided valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in the amounts of approximately $375.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively, resulting in an increase in the valuation allowance in 2001 of approximately $368.2 million. There was no valuation allowance provided against the remainder of our deferred tax assets, as we believed that it was more likely than not that these assets would be realized. The primary bases for this conclusion were the expectation of future income from our ordinary and recurring operations and tax planning strategies, which relied on our continuing ability to realize value from our intellectual property portfolio. Impact of Adoption of Accounting Standard In June 2001 the FASB issued SFAS 142. Under these new rules, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. As required by SFAS 142, we ceased amortizing goodwill of $2.254 billion beginning January 1, 2002, which includes $12.1 million of assembled workforce previously classified as purchased intangible assets, which was reclassified to goodwill effective January 1, 2002 as required by SFAS 142. 38 Table of Contents The following table presents the impact of SFAS 142 on net loss and net loss per share had the standard been in effect for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (In thousands, except per share data) Net loss as reported $ (2,236,576 ) $ (2,742,048 ) $ (687,822 ) Adjustments: Amortization of goodwill 753,042 136,984 Amortization of assembled workforce previously classified as a purchased intangible asset 6,549 1,107 Income tax effect (5,893 ) (451 ) Net adjustments 753,698 137,640 Net loss as adjusted $ (2,236,576 ) $ (1,988,350 ) $ (550,182 ) Net loss per share (basic and diluted) as reported $ (8.35 ) $ (10.79 ) $ (3.13 ) Net loss per share (basic and diluted) as adjusted $ (8.35 ) $ (7.83 ) $ (2.50 ) Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2002 the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, or SFAS 146, which nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring), or EITF 94 3. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, whereas EITF 94 3 required that such liability be recognized on the date on which the company had committed to an exit plan. We are required to adopt the provisions of SFAS 146 effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, or FIN 45, effective prospectively for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. Under this Interpretation, a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of certain guarantees, a fair value liability for the obligations it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. We did not have any outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2002 required to be recorded as obligations upon adoption of FIN 45. Our product warranties, which are subject to the disclosure provisions of FIN 45, have been disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In December 2002 the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, or SFAS 148, which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, or SFAS 123. SFAS 148 amends the disclosure requirements in SFAS 123 for stock based compensation for annual periods ending after December 15, 2002 and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. The disclosure requirements apply to all companies, including those that continue to recognize stock based compensation under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. Effective for financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002, SFAS 148 also provides three alternative transition methods for companies that choose to adopt the fair value measurement provisions of SFAS 123. We have not elected to adopt the fair value measurement provisions of SFAS 123. 39 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities on Hand. Since our inception we have financed our operations through a combination of sales of equity securities, cash generated by operations and cash assumed in acquisitions. Including restricted marketable securities, at December 31, 2002 we had $187.8 million in working capital, $502.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities and $40.2 million in long term marketable securities. Marketable securities are defined as income yielding securities that can be readily converted into cash. Certain marketable securities are pledged as collateral against our bank credit facility and consequently are classified as restricted securities. At December 31, 2001 we had $265.1 million in working capital, $539.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities and $109.8 million in long term marketable securities. Our working capital decreased in 2002 primarily due to our operating loss, additions to property and equipment, liabilities recorded in connection with our restructuring activities, and the assumption of net liabilities in the Mobilink acquisition. Cash Provided and Used in 2002 and 2001. Cash and cash equivalents decreased from $403.8 million at December 31, 2001 to $389.6 million at December 31, 2002 as the cash provided by investing and financing activities was more than offset by cash used in operations. During 2002 our operating activities used $69.2 million in cash. This was a result of our net loss of $2.237 billion, which was offset in part by $2.128 billion in non cash items and $15.0 million in cash provided by changes in net operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net loss include impairment of goodwill, depreciation, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, certain restructuring charges, valuation allowance on deferred taxes, and net losses on strategic investments. During 2001 operating activities provided $49.1 million in cash. Although we had a net loss of $2.742 billion for 2001, such amount included non cash items aggregating $2.660 billion resulting from depreciation, stock based compensation expense, amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, IPR&D, certain restructuring charges, valuation allowance on deferred taxes, and losses on strategic investments. In addition to the impact of non cash items, our 2001 operating activities also reflected decreases in accounts receivable and inventory, offset in part by decreases in other accrued liabilities. Accounts receivable increased $62.9 million to $128.2 million during 2002. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from the increase in net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2002 as compared with the fourth quarter of 2001 and due to the fact that our sales were fairly consistent throughout the quarter, as opposed to the fourth quarter of 2001 in which a higher proportion of sales occurred in the first two months of that quarter. Inventories increased $23.8 million to $46.0 million during 2002. The increase in inventory was to support our increased revenue levels and entry into certain markets that require higher inventory levels. Investing activities provided cash in the amount of $22.4 million in 2002, primarily as a result of $100.0 million in net proceeds received from the sale of marketable securities and strategic investments, offset in part by the purchase of $75.2 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the purchase of $3.3 million of strategic investments. Our investing activities used cash in the amount of $216.8 million in 2001, primarily as a result of $166.1 million of net purchases of marketable securities, the purchase of $71.4 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the purchase of $20.3 million of strategic investments, offset in part by $41.0 million of net cash acquired in purchase transactions. Cash provided by financing activities was $32.5 million in 2002, which was primarily the result of $44.1 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and under our employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by $13.7 million in payments on debt and capital lease obligations. Cash provided by financing activities was $47.6 million in 2001, which was primarily the result of a $90.0 million bank credit facility secured to replace the ServerWorks credit facility that was repaid in 2001, $59.8 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and under our employee stock purchase plan, and $25.5 million in net proceeds from the exercise of performance 40 Table of Contents based warrants earned by customers, partially offset by $128.6 million in payments on debt obligations primarily of acquired companies. Due to the continued decline in our stock price, we received fewer proceeds from the exercise of stock options in 2002 than we did in 2001, as only options with lower exercise prices were exercised. In the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2002: Payment Obligations by Year (In thousands) There 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after Total Bank credit facility $ 90,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 90,000 Payable to customer 17,600 17,600 Capital leases and other obligations 4,658 1,212 5,870 Deferred payments on fixed asset purchases 14,314 14,314 Operating leases 70,922 77,479 56,341 25,900 24,506 67,678 322,826 Restructuring liabilities 19,288 12,162 7,120 5,095 4,301 7,725 55,691 Purchase commitments 1,555 1,555 Total $ 218,337 $ 90,853 $ 63,461 $ 30,995 $ 28,807 $ 75,403 $ 507,856 We entered into a $90.0 million financing arrangement for a bank credit facility in December 2002 to replace a $90 million credit facility that matured in December 2002. We may periodically choose the rate at which the new credit facility bears interest at either (a) the higher of (i) 0.5% plus the Federal Reserve rate and (ii) the Bank of America prime rate or (b) LIBOR plus 0.75% (selected in one, two or three month periods). Interest is payable at either the selected interest period or quarterly. At December 31, 2002, $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility and the interest rate was 2.15%. A minimum of $90.0 million in marketable securities is required to secure the credit facility, and the carrying value of these restricted marketable securities at December 31, 2002 was $92.3 million. The credit facility is due and payable December 23, 2003 and may be paid earlier without premium or penalty. At December 31, 2002 our debt also included a stipulated judgment payable to a customer with a remaining balance of $17.6 million to be paid in four installments, with the final installment due in November 2003, plus interest on the unpaid principal balance remaining from time to time outstanding at a rate of approximately 2.78% per annum. See Legal Proceedings, included in Part I, Item 3 of this Report and Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Capitalized leases and other obligations are payable in varying monthly installments at a weighted average rate of 5.31% per annum. We received extended payment terms in connection with the $14.3 million purchase of certain engineering design tools. We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2014. Our restructuring liabilities consist primarily of estimated future lease and operating costs on restructured facilities, less offsetting sublease income if any. These costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. We had outstanding capital commitments totaling approximately $1.6 million as of December 31, 2002, primarily for the purchase of lab test equipment and computer hardware and for information systems infrastructure. During 2002 we spent approximately $83.7 million on capital equipment to support our operations. We expect that we will continue to purchase additional engineering design tools, computer hardware, test equipment, information systems and leasehold improvements to support our operations. We may finance 41 Table of Contents these purchases through the cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that we have on hand, leases, borrowings, debt or equity offerings, or a combination of any of these means. Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. We could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our new products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; volume price discounts; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; capital improvements to new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; litigation expenses and judgments; expenses related to our restructuring plans; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; and general economic conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, including the effects of the current international conflict and the general economic slowdown and related uncertainties. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. 42 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our Company or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The continuing worldwide economic slowdown, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts and related uncertainties may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries, the war in Iraq and recent international conflicts, terrorist and military activity have resulted in a continuing downturn in worldwide economic conditions. As a result of these unfavorable economic conditions, beginning in the first half of 2001 we experienced a significant slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of backlog, and higher overhead costs as a percentage of our reduced net revenue, from which we have not yet fully recovered. We cannot predict the timing, strength and duration of any economic recovery in the semiconductor industry and in particular, the broadband communications markets. In addition, the events of September 11, 2001 and the continuing international conflicts and terrorist acts and the possibility of an extended war in Iraq can be expected to place further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Any such variations could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns such as the current one. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, excess customer inventories, accelerated erosion of prices and excess production capacity. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and in our results of operations. The current downturn and future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry or the broadband communications markets to fully recover from the current downturn could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products in future periods. Our quarterly results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: economic and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and in particular, the broadband communications markets, including the effects of the current significant economic slowdown; 43 Table of Contents international conflicts and acts of terrorism, the possibility of an extended war in Iraq or elsewhere and the impact of adverse economic, market and political conditions worldwide; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and the ability of our customers to manage their inventories; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies and products in our target markets; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities and at the compensation levels that we need to implement our business and product plans; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; and our ability to reduce costs and increase efficiencies through the ongoing restructuring plan that we implemented in the fourth quarter of 2002. Additionally, we are beginning to derive a larger portion of our product revenue from emerging markets such as wireless networking, cellular, DSL, PVR and DBS. These markets are immature and unpredictable and we cannot assure you that these markets will develop or that we will continue to derive significant revenue from these markets in the future. Due to the limited amount of historical data available to us, it is difficult to predict our future revenue streams and the sustainability of such emerging markets. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Report, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management personnel, including our co founder and Chief Technical Officer Dr. Henry Samueli, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Alan E. Ross, and other senior executives. We do not have employment agreements with these executives, or any other key employees, that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of Dr. Samueli, Mr. Ross and certain other key senior management or technical personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2003 one of our co founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas, III, resigned from his positions as President and Chief Executive Officer and stated that he will not stand for re election to the Board at our 2003 Annual Meeting. Mr. Ross, who was serving as our Chief Operating Officer at the time of Dr. Nicholas resignation, has assumed the responsibilities of President and Chief Executive Officer. We are conducting a search for a successor Chief Executive Officer. If we are unable to attract a suitable successor to Mr. Ross or if we lose the services of Mr. Ross prior to hiring his successor, our business could be seriously harmed. We anticipate that the recruitment of a successor Chief Executive Officer and the adjustment to any changes implemented by such Chief Executive Officer, will continue to require substantial attention and effort and place a significant burden on our Board of Directors and management personnel. 44 Table of Contents Furthermore, our future success depends on the ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly senior managers, digital circuit designers, RF and mixed signal circuit designers, software engineers and systems applications engineers. Competition for these employees is intense, and it may be more difficult to attract personnel prior to hiring a successor to Mr. Ross. Stock options generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, and the substantial decline in the price of our Class A common stock over the past two years may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, six of the officers who serve as general managers of our business units have been in such positions for a year or less. These individuals are not long time Broadcom employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or that they will successfully implement our business plans within these business units. Our acquisition strategy may be dilutive to existing shareholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2002 we acquired 22 companies. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, capital infusions, and the purchase or sale of assets. We also continually evaluate the performance and prospects of our various businesses and possible adjustments in our businesses to reflect changes in our assessment of their performance and prospects. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired companys technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the typical size of the companies we have historically acquired. Furthermore, acquisitions may require large one time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, or the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. In connection with our 13 purchase transactions to date, we recorded goodwill in the aggregate amount of approximately $4.541 billion. Through 2001 the portion of that goodwill attributable to each acquisition generally was amortized over a 60 month period from the date that the acquisition closed. In accordance with SFAS 121, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.182 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2001 to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. Effective January 1, 2002 goodwill is no longer amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with SFAS 141 and SFAS 142. In accordance with SFAS 142 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.241 billion during the three months ended December 31, 2002 to write down the value of goodwill associated with certain of our purchase transactions. We may incur additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. In addition, in connection with these acquisitions we incurred deferred compensation charges generally related to the assumption of stock options and restricted shares in the aggregate 45 Table of Contents amount of approximately $1.597 billion, which is being amortized over the period of time for which the relevant options or restricted stock may continue to vest. We expect to record additional goodwill and deferred compensation in connection with future acquisitions and may record additional goodwill and deferred compensation with respect to prior acquisitions that involve as yet unearned contingent consideration. Any of these events could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Alternatively, if we issue equity in connection with an acquisition, as in the case of our recent acquisitions, or convertible debt securities, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A or Class B common stock. For example, as a consequence of the prior pooling of interests rules, the securities issued in nine of our prior acquisitions were shares of Class B common stock, which have voting rights superior to our publicly traded Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. In the future, we may not be able to find other suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, as the recent decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. Moreover, it may be difficult for us to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our revenue in the past from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to Hewlett Packard (including sales to Compaq, which was acquired by Hewlett Packard in May 2002), Motorola and Dell, including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, accounted for approximately 14.8%, 12.1%, and 11.3%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2002. Sales to our five largest customers, including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 52.3% of our net revenue in 2002 as compared with 54.9% of our net revenue in 2001. We expect that a small group of key customers, the composition of which has varied over time, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in 2003 and in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; many of our customers have pre existing relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect their decisions to purchase our products; our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; and some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than 46 Table of Contents the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual most favored nation pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and any significant order cancellations or deferrals could adversely affect our business. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Any significant cancellations or deferrals in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, cancellations or deferrals of product orders, the return of previously sold products or the overproduction of products due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could cause us to hold excess or obsolete inventory, which could reduce our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in the markets for digital cable and satellite set top boxes; cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; VoIP gateway and telephony systems; broadband network processors; and SystemI/O server solutions. We also compete with suppliers of system level and motherboard level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for some of our products. In all of our target markets, we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own silicon solutions. We also expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has in the past and is likely to continue to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. In some of our businesses, we are dependent on competitors for information for the timely development of next generation products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and broadband communications markets to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers changing demands. We sell products in markets which are characterized by rapidly 47 Table of Contents changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these or other broadband communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the broadband communications markets and to introduce and promote those products successfully. The broadband communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We have in the past invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. If new markets do not develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new silicon solutions for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost effective and timely manner and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our historical quarterly results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; accurately define new products; timely complete and introduce new product designs; timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the products of our customers into which our products will be incorporated; obtain sufficient foundry capacity; achieve high manufacturing yields; shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and gain market acceptance of our products and our customers products. In some of our businesses, our ability to develop and deliver next generation products successfully depends in part on access to information from companies that are competitors. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or retain our existing customers as these customers may transition to other companies that can meet their product development needs and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 48 Table of Contents We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our products into their product offerings or if our customers product offerings are not commercially successful. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products. Without these design wins, it becomes difficult to sell our products. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may be competitors or may be involved in litigation with us. Once an equipment manufacturer designs a competitors product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an equipment manufacturer designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be successful or that we will receive any revenue from such product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers products. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins or that our customers equipment that incorporates our products will ever be commercially successful. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product life cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need three to six months or longer to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to nine months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Moreover, in light of the prolonged economic slowdown in the semiconductor industry, it may take significantly longer than three to nine months before customers commence volume production of equipment incorporating some of our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. Our future success depends in significant part on strategic relationships with certain customers. If we cannot maintain these relationships or if these customers develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solutions instead of buying our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the past, we have relied in significant part on our strategic relationships with customers that are technology leaders in our target markets. We intend to pursue and continue to form these strategic relationships but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our partners frequently place considerable pressure 49 Table of Contents on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to our strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development could impair our relationships with our strategic partners and negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our sales would decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and damage our reputation with current or prospective customers. Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by our suppliers, our customers and ourselves, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. We depend on five independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. Five outside foundry subcontractors located in Asia manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices in current production. In September 1999 two of the foundries principal facilities were affected by a significant earthquake in Taiwan. As a consequence of this earthquake, they suffered power outages and equipment damage that impaired their wafer deliveries which, together with strong demand, resulted in wafer shortages and higher wafer pricing industrywide. If any of our foundries suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, encounters financial difficulties or any other disruption of foundry capacity, we would need to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. Even our current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes requalified if there is a disruption in an existing process. We typically require several months to qualify a new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from it. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may still experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. Because we rely on outside foundries with limited capacity, we face several significant risks, including: a lack of ensured wafer supply and potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices; limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and the unavailability of or potential delays in obtaining access to key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. 50 Table of Contents The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we do not have a long term volume purchase agreement or a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our foundries. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we primarily use five independent foundries, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured on a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or new foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that our foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices, which could impair our ability to meet our customers needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Some of our acquired companies have established relationships with foundries other than our five main foundries, and we are currently using these other foundries to produce the initial products of these acquired companies. We may utilize such foundries for other products in the future. In using new foundries, we will be subject to all of the same risks described in the foregoing paragraphs with respect to our current foundries. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs, and we have designed most of our products to be manufactured in ..35 micron, .22 micron, .18 micron and ..13 micron geometry processes. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Third party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results. Companies in the semiconductor and broadband communities industries often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been engaged, and currently we are engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. Although we are defending 51 Table of Contents the pending litigation vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, could increase our costs of production and could expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. We may also have to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third partys intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As our international business expands, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business, political and economic risks specific to our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. In addition, approximately 25.1% of our net revenue for the fiscal year 2002 was derived from sales to independent customers outside the United States. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. In 1999 we established an international distribution center that includes an engineering design center in Singapore. We also undertake design and development activities in Canada, Belgium, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, Israel, Taiwan and China. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. The war in Iraq, recent terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, the resulting heightened security and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to: acts of war, terrorism and international conflicts; political, social and economic instability; exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; trade restrictions; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; foreign technical standards; changes in tariffs; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 52 Table of Contents difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; and potentially adverse tax consequences. We cannot assure you that the factors described above will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. We currently operate under tax holidays in certain foreign jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy such tax holidays or realize any net tax benefits from such tax holidays. Moreover, the seasonality of international sales and economic conditions in our primary overseas markets may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other parties may obtain, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We have received 301 U.S. patents and have filed over 1,600 additional U.S. patent applications. We cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. We may not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Moreover, because we have participated in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on the adopted standards. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, some of our customers have entered into agreements with us that grant them the right to use our proprietary technology if we ever fail to fulfill our obligations, including product supply obligations, under those agreements, and if we do not correct the failure within a specified time period. Moreover, we often incorporate the intellectual property of strategic customers into our own designs, and have certain obligations not to use or disclose their intellectual property without their authorization. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We are currently engaged in litigation, and we may have to engage in additional litigation in the future, to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation has in the past been and will likely continue to be very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert managements attention from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our operations. 53 Table of Contents The loss of any of the third party subcontractors that assemble and test substantially all of our current products could disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales. We do not own or operate an assembly or test facility. Six third party subcontractors located in Asia assemble and test substantially all of our current products. Because we rely on third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance and control. This lack of control has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. We do not have long term agreements with any of these subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. Even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the same risks described in the foregoing paragraph. Our recently implemented restructuring plan could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties and could impair our ability to respond rapidly to growth opportunities. As a result of the continuing significant economic slowdown and the related uncertainties in the semiconductor industry, we implemented a new restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2002. The plan focuses on cost reductions and operating efficiencies, and included workforce reductions. Employees directly affected by the reductions may seek future employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Furthermore, our restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that our restructuring efforts will be successful, that future operations will improve or that the completion of the restructuring will not disrupt our operations. A large portion of our operating expenses, including rent, salaries and capital lease expenditures, are fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our revenue does not meet our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue and additional restructuring of our operations may be required in the future. If we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to any renewed growth opportunities. We may seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or by borrowing money, but additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next year or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. We believe we could raise these funds by selling more equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A or Class B common stock. 54 Table of Contents Our California facilities and the facilities of three of the five primary independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our current products are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. In addition, two of the five outside foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices, are located in Taiwan and one such outside foundry is located in Japan. Both Taiwan and Japan have experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional earthquakes. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in Taiwan or Japan could materially disrupt our foundries production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by the FCC, other federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over each of our target markets. Although current FCC regulations and the laws and regulations of other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. As a result, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable operators or telephone companies to offer certain services or other aspects of their business may impede the sale of our products. For example, in the past we have experienced delays when products incorporating our chips failed to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere could also materially and adversely affect our business. Our stock price is highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since August 1, 2001 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $9.52 and as high as $53.35 per share. These fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; announcements of changes in our senior management; announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets; international conflicts, including the possibility of an extended war in Iraq and elsewhere, and acts of terrorism; changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; changes in investor perceptions; changes in accounting rules; or changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. 55 Table of Contents In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other high technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation, and as noted in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15, we have recently been sued in several purported securities class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated into a single action. We and our directors and officers have also been sued in purported shareholder derivative actions and other securities litigation. Although we believe that those lawsuits are without merit, an adverse determination could have a very significant effect on our business and results of operations, and could materially affect the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, it is likely that the lawsuits will divert managements attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect the price of our stock. Various export licensing requirements could materially and adversely affect our business or require us to significantly modify our current business practices. Various government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. We have applied for and received a number of export licenses and have made a number of other required filings under these export regulations. However, in connection with the implementation of our comprehensive export compliance program, we discovered that we had inadvertently failed to file certain export applications and notices. We recently made the required filings and certain related disclosures to the appropriate government regulators. We have obtained permission to continue exporting the affected products; however, we may be subject to fines or other penalties because some of the filings were not made in a timely manner. Some of our directors, executive officers and their affiliates can control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, and accordingly we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without their approval. As of December 31, 2002 our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 24.3% of our outstanding common stock and 70.6% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. In particular, as of December 31, 2002 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas, III and Dr. Henry Samueli, beneficially owned a total of approximately 22.9% of our outstanding common stock and 68.8% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. As of March 31, 2003 Dr. Nicholas and Dr. Samueli also hold two of the six seats on our Board of Directors and serve as Co Chairmen of the Board, although Dr. Nicholas has stated he will not stand for re election to the Board at our 2003 Annual Meeting. In addition to serving as a director, Dr. Samueli serves as our Chief Technical Officer. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without the approval of these two shareholders. These transactions include proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other purchases of our Class A common stock that could give our shareholders the opportunity to receive a higher price for their shares than the prevailing market price at the time of such purchases. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, we have in the past issued and may in the future issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, upon exercise of certain stock options, and for other purposes. Class B shares have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared with one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock). Our Board of Directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue such shares without a shareholder vote. It is possible that the provisions in our charter documents, the exercise of supervoting rights by holders of our 56 Table of Contents Class B common stock, our directors and officers ownership of a majority of the Class B common stock and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or additional shares of Class B common stock may prevent or discourage third parties from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these factors may discourage third parties from bidding for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price for this stock. These factors may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. We do not use derivative financial instruments. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of December 31, 2002 the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our marketable debt securities, consisting of commercial paper, corporate bonds, corporate notes and federal, state, county and municipal governmental bonds, are generally classified as held to maturity and are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. Our investment policy for held to maturity investments requires that all investments mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than one year. As of December 31, 2002 the carrying and fair values of these investments were $61.1 million and $61.4 million, respectively. These investments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2002, marketable debt securities with a carrying value of $92.3 million were pledged as collateral for a bank credit facility. Our strategic equity investments are generally classified as available for sale and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Included in our portfolio are equity investments in three publicly traded companies. In 2002 we recorded a net gain of approximately $4.1 million primarily due to the sale of one of these investments. In 2001 we recorded losses of $22.0 million representing other than temporary declines in the values of our investments in publicly traded companies. As of December 31, 2002 the carrying and fair value of these publicly held investments was $0.6 million. We have also invested in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered to be in the start up or development stage, or in funds that invest in such companies. We make investments in key business partners and other industry participants to establish important strategic relationships, expand existing relationships and achieve a return on our investment. These investments are inherently risky, as the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. As such, we could lose our entire investment in these companies. We recorded losses of $37.3 million and $10.7 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to these privately held investments. As of December 31, 2002 the carrying and fair value of these investments was $6.3 million. As of December 31, 2002 our short term debt consisted of a financing arrangement for a bank credit facility of up to $90.0 million, a stipulated judgment payable to a customer in the amount of $17.6 million, and capital leases and other obligations in the amount of $5.9 million. With respect to the credit facility, we may periodically choose the rate at which the credit facility bears interest at either (a) the higher of (i) 0.5% plus the Federal Reserve rate and (ii) the Bank of America prime rate or (b) LIBOR plus .75% (selected in one, two or three month periods). Interest is payable at either the selected interest period or quarterly. At December 31, 2002, $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility and the interest rate was 2.15%. A minimum of $90.0 million in marketable securities is required to secure the credit facility and the carrying value of these restricted marketable securities at December 31, 2002 was $92.3 million. The credit facility is due and payable December 23, 2003 and may be paid earlier without premium or penalty. The remaining balance of the stipulated judgment will be paid in four installments, with the final installment due in November 2003, plus interest on the unpaid principal balance remaining from time to time outstanding at a rate of approximately 2.78% per annum. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Report and Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Our long term debt consists of capital leases and other obligations. These obligations are payable in varying monthly installments at a weighted average rate of 5.31% per annum through 2004. The fair value of our debt and marketable debt securities fluctuates based on changes in interest rates; however, given the short term maturities of the bank credit facility and the stipulated judgment, we do not believe these instruments are subject to significant interest rate risk. The carrying amount, principal maturity and estimated fair value of our marketable debt securities and long term debt exposure as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, were as follows: Carrying Maturity Fair Amount Value 12/31/02 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter 12/31/02 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 5,531 $ 5,531 $ $ $ $ 5,531 Weighted average interest rate 1.38 % 1.38 % Marketable debt securities $ 61,098 $ 56,031 $ 5,067 $ $ $ 61,419 Weighted average interest rate 4.54 % 4.71 % 2.71 % Restricted marketable debt securities $ 92,254 $ 57,117 $ 29,384 $ 5,753 $ $ 93,415 Weighted average interest rate 3.47 % 3.99 % 2.53 % 3.05 % Long term debt Capital leases and other obligations $ 5,870 $ 4,658 $ 1,212 $ $ $ 5,870 Weighted average interest rate 5.31 % 4.66 % 7.80 % Carrying Maturity Fair Amount Value 12/31/01 2002 2003 2004 Thereafter 12/31/01 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 37,230 $ 37,230 $ $ $ $ 37,225 Weighted average interest rate 2.34 % 2.34 % Marketable debt securities $ 245,795 $ 136,028 $ 101,167 $ 8,600 $ $ 249,033 Weighted average interest rate 4.30 % 4.00 % 4.36 % 0.31 % Long term debt Capital leases and other obligations $ 6,995 $ 2,989 $ 2,794 $ 1,212 $ $ 6,995 Weighted average interest rate 7.86 % 8.04 % 7.68 % 7.80 % 
 
