Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors section at the end of this Item 7, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with complete system on a chip and software solutions. Our diverse product portfolio addresses every major broadband communications market, and includes solutions for digital cable, satellite and IP set top boxes; high definition television (HDTV); cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems; broadband network and security processors; and SystemI/ Otm server solutions. Net Revenue. We sell our products to leading manufacturers of broadband communications equipment in each of our target markets. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into equipment used in several different markets. We utilize independent foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products. Our net revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Such sales represented approximately 99.0%, 98.5% and 95.7% of our total net revenue in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We derive the remaining balance of our net revenue predominantly from development agreements, software licenses and maintenance agreements, system level reference designs and cancellation fees. The majority of our sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. However, we derived approximately 9.6%, 7.1% and 10.4% of our total net revenue from sales made through distributors in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The demand for our products has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: economic and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our products and technologies in our target markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; and the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. For these and other reasons, our net revenue and results of operations in 2004 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect these fluctuations will continue. 23 Table of Contents Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Hewlett Packard(1) 12.9 % 15.5 % 14.8 % Motorola 12.4 * 12.1 Dell * 11.9 11.3 Cisco(2) * * 10.0 Five largest customers as a group 51.1 51.6 52.3 * Less than 10% of net revenue. (1) Includes sales to Compaq, which was acquired by Hewlett Packard in May 2002, for all periods presented. (2) Includes sales to Linksys, which was acquired by Cisco in June 2003, for all periods presented. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2005 and for the foreseeable future. The identity of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Net revenue derived from all independent customers located outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States, as a percent of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Asia 15.0 % 19.6 % 20.5 % Europe 6.4 5.9 4.4 Other 0.2 0.3 0.4 21.6 % 25.8 % 25.3 % Net revenue derived from actual shipments to international destinations, primarily to Asia, represented approximately 79.0%, 77.7% and 70.0% of the Companys net revenue in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Gross Margin. Our gross profit as a percentage of net revenue, or gross margin, has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volumes of product sales; stock based compensation expense; the position of our products in their respective life cycles; the effects of competition; the effects of competitive pricing programs; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as wafer pricing and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and overhead costs such as prototyping expenses; provisions for excess or obsolete inventories; product warranty costs; amortization of purchased intangible assets; and licensing and royalty arrangements. 24 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss). Our net income (loss) has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: stock based compensation expense; amortization of purchased intangible assets; settlement costs; in process research and development, or IPR&D; impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; stock option exchange expense; and restructuring costs. In 2004 our net income was approximately $218.7 million as compared to a net loss of approximately $959.9 million in 2003, a difference of $1.179 billion. This significant improvement in profitability in 2004 was the direct result of a 49.1% improvement in net revenue and a 2.5 percentage point improvement in gross margin. This resulted in an increase of $437.0 million of gross profit. In addition, we had significant reductions in 2004 in stock based compensation expense, settlement costs, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, and stock option exchange expense, aggregating approximately $947.3 million, offset by an increase in IPR&D of approximately $63.8 million. Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than six months, with an additional three to more than nine months before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and or enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. In 2004, 2003 and 2002 we completed eight acquisitions for original aggregate equity consideration of $458.0 million and cash consideration of $86.0 million. In 2004 we acquired RAIDCore, Inc., a developer of redundant array of inexpensive disks, or RAID, and virtualization software; Sand Video, Inc., a developer of advanced video compression semiconductor technology; M Stream, Inc., a developer of solutions for signal to noise ratio performance improvements in cellular handsets; WIDCOMM, Inc., a provider of software solutions for Bluetooth wireless products; Zyray Wireless Inc., a developer of baseband co processors addressing WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) mobile devices; and Alphamosaic Limited, a developer of advanced mobile imaging, multimedia and 3D graphics technology optimized for use in cellphones and other mobile devices. In 2003 we acquired certain assets of Gadzoox Networks, Inc., a provider of storage networking technology. In 2002 we acquired Mobilink Telecom, Inc., a supplier of chipsets and reference designs for use in mobile phones, PDAs and cellular modem cards. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase transaction, the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired companies commencing as of their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Enterprise Segments. We operate in one reportable operating segment, broadband communications. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, or SFAS 131, establishes standards for the way that public business enterprises report information about operating segments in annual consolidated financial statements and requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in 25 Table of Contents interim financial reports. SFAS 131 also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. Although we had four operating segments at December 31, 2004, under the aggregation criteria set forth in SFAS 131 we only operate in one reportable operating segment, broadband communications. Under SFAS 131, two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single operating segment for financial reporting purposes if aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS 131, if the segments have similar economic characteristics, and if the segments are similar in each of the following areas: the nature of products and services; the nature of the production processes; the type or class of customer for their products and services; and the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services. We meet each of the aggregation criteria for the following reasons: the sale of integrated circuits is the only material source of revenue for each of our four operating segments or business groups; the integrated circuits sold by each of our operating segments use the same standard CMOS manufacturing processes; the integrated circuits marketed by each of our operating segments are sold to one type of customer: manufacturers of broadband equipment, who incorporate our integrated circuits into their electronic products; and all of our integrated circuits are sold through a centralized sales force and common wholesale distributors. All of our business groups share similar economic characteristics as they have a similar long term business model, operate at similar gross margins, and have similar research and development expenses and similar selling, general and administrative expenses. The causes for variation among each of our business groups are the same and include factors such as (i) life cycle and price and cost fluctuations, (ii) number of competitors, (iii) product differentiation and (iv) size of market opportunity. Additionally, each business group is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The number and composition of employees and the amount and types of tools and materials required are similar for each business group. Finally, even though we periodically reorganize our business groups based upon changes in customers, end markets or products, acquisitions, long term growth strategies, and the experience and bandwidth of our vice presidents/general managers, the common financial goals for each business group remain constant. Because we meet each of the criteria set forth in SFAS 131 and our four business groups as of December 31, 2004 share similar economic characteristics, we aggregate our results of operations in one reportable operating segment. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from managements estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. 26 Table of Contents We believe the following critical accounting policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Net Revenue We recognize product revenue when the following fundamental criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. In addition, we do not recognize revenue until all customer acceptance requirements have been met, when applicable. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, a portion of our sales are made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. Product revenue on sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents and the completion of any customer acceptance requirements, when applicable, are used to verify product delivery or that services have been rendered. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. Sales Returns and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. Additional reductions to revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any of our customers was to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory and Warranty Reserves. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, use of materials and service delivery costs incurred in correcting any product failure. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required, which could reduce gross margins. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The amounts and useful lives assigned to other intangible assets impact the amount and timing of future amortization, and the amount assigned to in process research and development is expensed immediately. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) another significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In the process of our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. The estimates we have 27 Table of Contents used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business. It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Contingencies. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. As a result of our cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carrybacks, we concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets was appropriate. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that carries a valuation allowance, we will record a reduction to income tax expense in the period of such realization. We record estimated tax liabilities to the extent the contingencies are probable and can be reasonably estimated. However the actual liability in any such tax contingencies may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. From time to time, we are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal actions. We are aggressively defending our current litigation matters, including our pending securities class action lawsuit. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement charges. In addition the resolution of any future intellectual property litigation may require us to make royalty payments, which could adversely impact gross margins in future periods. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a charge equal to at least the minimum estimated liability for a loss contingency when both of the following conditions are met: (i) information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and (ii) the range of loss can be reasonably estimated. However the actual liability in any such litigation may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional costs. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 49.7 52.2 55.8 Gross profit 50.3 47.8 44.2 Operating expense: Research and development(1) 20.6 27.0 42.6 Selling, general and administrative(1) 8.9 11.8 15.3 Stock based compensation 3.0 16.3 33.1 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.2 0.2 2.1 Settlement costs 2.9 12.1 0.3 In process research and development 2.7 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 0.7 27.3 116.8 Stock option exchange 13.0 Restructuring costs 0.2 11.1 Income (loss) from operations 11.3 (60.1 ) (177.1 ) Interest income, net 0.7 0.4 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.3 1.6 (3.0 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 12.3 (58.1 ) (179.0 ) Provision for income taxes 3.2 1.5 27.5 Net income (loss) 9.1 % (59.6 )% (206.5 )% (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock option exchange expense. See Consolidated Statements of Operations, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 790,515 49.1 % Cost of revenue 1,193,294 49.7 839,776 52.2 353,518 42.1 Gross profit $ 1,207,316 50.3 % $ 770,319 47.8 % $ 436,997 56.7 29 Table of Contents Net Revenue. Our revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Net revenue is revenue less reductions for rebates and provisions for returns and allowances. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and their contributions to the increase in net revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 1,121,090 46.7 % $ 917,876 57.0 % $ 203,214 22.1 % Broadband communications 780,383 32.5 373,562 23.2 406,821 108.9 Mobile and wireless 499,137 20.8 318,657 19.8 180,480 56.6 Net revenue $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 790,515 49.1 The growth in net revenue resulted primarily from an increase in the volume of shipments of our semiconductor products stemming from the rise in demand for our products in each of our major target markets in 2004, except for Intel processor based server chipsets, included in enterprise networking, which declined. The previously anticipated decline in shipments of our Intel processor based server chipsets resulted in a $46.9 million decrease in net revenue for those products in 2004 as compared with 2003. Our enterprise networking products include Ethernet controllers, transceivers, switches, broadband network and security processors, server chipsets and storage products. Our broadband communications products include solutions for cable modems, digital cable set top boxes, direct broadcast satellites, personal video recording applications, DSL applications, IP set top boxes, HD DVD and digital TV. Our mobile and wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and VoIP solutions. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and their contributions to the decrease in net revenue that occurred in the three months ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2004: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended December 31, 2004 September 30, 2004 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 238,048 44.1 % $ 295,724 45.8 % $ (57,676 ) (19.5 )% Broadband communications 175,354 32.5 218,810 33.8 (43,456 ) (19.9 ) Mobile and wireless 125,988 23.4 131,981 20.4 (5,993 ) (4.5 ) Net revenue $ 539,390 100.0 % $ 646,515 100.0 % $ (107,125 ) (16.6 ) The decrease in net revenue from the third quarter of 2004 to the fourth quarter of 2004 resulted primarily from overall industry weakness, specifically related to inventory corrections in the direct broadcast satellite and networking markets. In addition, as expected, we experienced a quarter to quarter decline in shipments of our Intel processor based server chipsets of approximately $35.0 million. We currently anticipate that total net revenue in the first quarter of 2005 will be relatively consistent with the $539.4 million achieved in the fourth quarter of 2004. In the first quarter of 2005, we expect continued softness in the enterprise networking market and a further decline in shipments of our Intel processor based server chipsets. In addition we expect to see some seasonality in our mobile and wireless business, offset by an increase in our Bluetooth business. We also believe we are seeing signs of recovery in our direct broadcast satellite business, as well as in other areas of our broadband communications target market. We recorded rebates to certain customers in the amounts of $263.6 million and $165.2 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. We account for rebates in accordance with FASB Emerging Issues Task Force Issue, or EITF, 30 Table of Contents Issue No. 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products), and, accordingly, record reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms included in our rebate agreements. Historically, reversals of rebate accruals have not been material. We anticipate that accrued rebates in absolute dollars will vary in future periods based on the level of overall sales to customers who participate in our rebate programs. However, we do not expect rebates to impact our gross margin as our prices to these customers and corresponding revenue and margins are already net of such rebates. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing the finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with assembly, packaging, test and quality assurance for semiconductor products, prototyping costs, amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs and provisions for excess or obsolete inventories. Gross profit represents net revenue less the cost of revenue. The 2004 increase in absolute dollars of gross profit resulted primarily from the 49.1% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 47.8% in 2003 to 50.3% in 2004. The primary factors that resulted in this 2.5 percentage point improvement in gross margin were (i) a 1.5 percentage point improvement in product margin primarily due to changes in product mix, (ii) decreases in stock option exchange expense, the amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock based compensation expense, which improved gross margin by 0.7, 0.6 and 0.3 percentage points, respectively, (iii) offset by an increase in the provision for excess and obsolete inventory of 0.4 percentage points. In 2004 we increased our provision for excess and obsolete inventory as compared to 2003 as a result of an increase in gross inventory. The primary factors that resulted in increased inventory were the expansion of inventory in response to higher levels of purchase orders received from our customers, shorter lead times for certain of our customers, and the buildup of buffer inventory based upon our forecast of future demand for certain key products. Our inventory levels are determined based on these factors as well as the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels and may require us to make additional provisions. The following table presents details of certain non cash expenses incurred in manufacturing operations for 2004 and 2003 that are included in cost of revenue: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Stock based compensation expense $ 1,367 0.1 % $ 6,528 0.4 % $ (5,161 ) (79.1 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets 12,821 0.5 17,207 1.1 (4,386 ) (25.5 ) Stock option exchange expense 11,454 0.7 (11,454 ) $ 14,188 0.6 % $ 35,189 2.2 % $ (21,001 ) (59.7 ) The 2004 decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to a reduction in the number of assumed unvested options and shares of restricted stock being amortized and the elimination of deferred compensation as a result of the termination of employment of certain employees. At December 31, 2004 the unamortized balance of deferred compensation, which will be amortized to cost of revenue through 2007, was approximately $0.2 million. However, if there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested stock options or restricted stock, we may be required to either accelerate from future periods or cancel the remaining deferred compensation. In the event additional deferred compensation is recorded in connection with any future acquisitions, our cost of revenue may be increased by its amortization. The 2004 decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets resulted from fewer purchased intangible assets being amortized. At December 31, 2004 the unamortized balance of completed technology was 31 Table of Contents approximately $12.2 million, of which $9.2 million and $3.0 million are expected to be amortized to cost of revenue in 2005 and 2006, respectively. However, if we acquire purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of revenue may be increased by the amortization of those assets. We charged approximately $11.5 million in stock option exchange expense to cost of revenue in 2003. There were no comparable charges incurred in 2004. Gross margin has been and will likely continue to be impacted in the future by competitive pricing programs, fluctuations in the volume of our product sales, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, product warranty costs, provisions for excess or obsolete inventories, possible future changes in product mix and the introduction of products with lower margins, among other factors. Our gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions and will be negatively impacted by the effectiveness of the FASBs revised rules on stock option expensing in the third quarter of 2005. For a discussion of the effects of future expensing of stock options, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, below. We anticipate that gross margin in the first quarter of 2005 will be relatively consistent with the 49.9% reported in the fourth quarter of 2004. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 495,075 20.6 % $ 434,018 27.0 % $ 61,057 14.1 % Selling, general and administrative 212,727 8.9 190,138 11.8 22,589 11.9 Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware, subcontracting costs, prototyping costs and facilities expenses. Research and development expense does not include amounts associated with stock based compensation or stock option exchange expenses for employees engaged in research and development or expense amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets related to research and development activities. The 2004 increase in research and development expense in absolute dollars resulted primarily from a $41.2 million increase in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses was primarily due to a 22.3% increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities in 2004, through acquisitions and hiring. In addition, there were increases in outsourced engineering, facilities and engineering design tool expenses in 2004, offset in part by lower depreciation expense on computer software and equipment. Based upon past experience, we anticipate that research and development expense in absolute dollars will increase over the long term as a result of the growth and diversification of the markets we serve, new product opportunities, changes in our compensation policies and any expansion into new markets and technologies. We anticipate that research and development expense in the first quarter of 2005 will increase from the $127.4 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2004. We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the broadband communications markets in which we operate. We hold over 800 U.S. patents, and we maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in broadband communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses, communications expenses and advertising expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense does not include amounts associated with stock 32 Table of Contents based compensation or stock option exchange expenses for administrative employees or expense amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets related to selling, general and administrative activities. The 2004 increase in selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars resulted primarily from a $22.5 million increase in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses was primarily due to a 22.1% increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities in 2004, through acquisitions and hiring. In addition, there were increases in expenses for travel and entertainment, marketing and accounting, which were offset by decreases in legal expense. Based upon past experience, we anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars will continue to increase over the long term to support any expansion of our operations through indigenous growth and acquisitions, as a result of periodic changes in our infrastructure to support any increased headcount, changes in our compensation policies, acquisition and integration activities, and international operations, and as a result of current and future litigation. We anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense in the first quarter of 2005 will increase from the $51.4 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2004. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents stock based compensation expense for employees engaged in research and development and selling, general and administrative activities for 2004 and 2003, which expense was segregated from the presentation of those items in the consolidated statements of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 58,611 2.4 % $ 219,337 13.6 % $ (160,726 ) (73.3 )% Selling, general and administrative 14,709 0.6 44,623 2.7 (29,914 ) (67.0 ) $ 73,320 3.0 % $ 263,960 16.3 % $ (190,640 ) (72.2 ) Stock based compensation expense generally represents the amortization of deferred compensation resulting from acquisitions. Deferred compensation primarily represents the difference between the fair value of our Class A common stock at the measurement date of each acquisition and the exercise price of each unvested stock option or each share of restricted stock assumed in the acquisition. To a much lesser extent, stock based compensation expense represents expense related to restricted stock units issued to employees. Deferred compensation is presented as a reduction of shareholders equity and is amortized ratably over the respective vesting periods of the applicable unvested securities, generally three to five years. The 2004 decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to a reduction in the number of assumed unvested options and shares of restricted stock being amortized and the elimination of deferred compensation as a result of the termination of employment of certain employees. At December 31, 2004 the unamortized balance of deferred compensation, which will be amortized to operating expenses through 2008, was approximately $40.5 million. However, if there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested stock options or restricted stock, we may be required to either accelerate from future periods or cancel the remaining deferred compensation. In the event additional deferred compensation is recorded in connection with any future acquisitions, our operating expenses would be increased by its amortization. For a discussion of the effects of future expensing of stock options, see the Recent Accounting Pronouncements, below. 33 Table of Contents Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents amortization of purchased intangible assets related to research and development and selling, general and administrative activities for 2004 and 2003, which expense was segregated from the presentation of those items in the consolidated statements of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ % $ 815 0.0 % $ (815 ) % Selling, general and administrative 3,703 0.2 2,689 0.2 1,014 37.7 $ 3,703 0.2 % $ 3,504 0.2 % $ 199 5.7 Purchased intangible assets primarily include completed technology, customer relationships, customer contracts and backlog, and are amortized on a straight line basis over the estimated remaining useful lives of the respective assets, ranging from less than one to three years. At December 31, 2004 the unamortized balance of customer relationships and other purchased intangible assets that will be amortized to future operating expense was approximately $4.9 million, of which $3.6 million and $1.3 million are expected to be amortized in 2005 and 2006, respectively. However, if we acquire purchased intangible assets in the future, our operating expenses would be increased by the amortization of those assets. Settlement Costs The following table presents settlement costs for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Settlement costs $ 68,700 2.9 % $ 194,509 12.1 % $ (125,809 ) (64.7 )% We recorded $68.7 million in settlement costs in 2004. Of this amount, $60.0 million was related to the settlement of various litigation matters, and the remaining $8.7 million reflects settlement costs related to a claim arising from an acquisition and certain indemnification costs. For a more detailed discussion of our settled and outstanding litigation, see Notes 3 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2003 we completed a management transition at our ServerWorks Corporation subsidiary and entered into a settlement agreement resolving various issues and disputes raised by certain employees and former securities holders of ServerWorks, including issues and disputes with three departing employees, relating to agreements entered into when we acquired ServerWorks in January 2001. In connection with the settlement, we incurred approximately $25.2 million in cash payments and expenses and recorded a one time non cash charge of approximately $88.1 million in May 2003, reflecting the acceleration from future periods of stock based compensation expense, most of which was previously recorded as deferred compensation established upon the acquisition of ServerWorks (and based upon stock market valuations at the time of the acquisition). In August 2003 we agreed with Intel Corporation to settle all litigation between the companies as well as litigation involving our respective affiliates. In connection with the settlement agreement, we paid Intel $60.0 million in 2003. We recorded an additional $21.2 million in settlement costs in 2003 in connection with the settlement of other litigation and third party claims. 34 Table of Contents In Process Research and Development IPR&D totaled $63.8 million for acquisitions completed in 2004. No comparable amount of IPR&D was recorded in 2003. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs, as clarified by FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 2, amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting the above stated criteria were charged to expense as part of the allocation of purchase price. The fair value of the IPR&D for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present value at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles, and market penetration and growth rates. The IPR&D charges include only the fair value of IPR&D performed as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets, and future research and development is included in goodwill. We believe the amounts recorded as IPR&D, as well as developed technology, represent the fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects at the time of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPR&D for our acquisitions completed in 2004: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPR&D (In years) (In millions) (In millions) RAIDCore RAID software stack 60 % 1 $ 1.8 23 % $ 2.3 Sand Video Decoder/codec chips 45 1.5 6.4 28 20.5 M Stream Algorithm implemented in DSP chip 30 1 1.3 26 3.7 Zyray WCDMA baseband co processor 80 1 5.6 24 25.9 Alphamosaic Multimedia co processor 50 1 11.5 21 11.3 We completed the development projects related to the RAIDCore acquisition. For one development project related to the Sand Video acquisition, we reallocated the resources to focus on semiconductor products that we believe are a higher priority. All other development projects are still in process. Except as noted above, actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPR&D projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. As of the respective acquisition dates of the 2004 acquisitions, certain ongoing development projects were in process. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The following table presents impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease % Change (In thousands, except percentages) Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets $ 18,000 0.7 % $ 439,611 27.3 % $ (421,611 ) (95.9 )% We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142, in October 2004 and 2003. Upon completion of the October 2004 and 2003 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair values of our four reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values. In accordance with SFAS 142, we compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to their estimated fair values. At October 1, 2004 and 2003 we determined and identified our four reporting units in accordance with SFAS 142. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as verification of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete four year financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes and consistent with those distributed to our Board of Directors. Cash flows beyond the four year discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating the present value techniques discussed in FASB Concepts Statement 7, Using Cash Flow Information and Present Value in Accounting Measurements, or Concepts Statement 7. Specifically, the income approach valuations included reporting unit cash flow discount rates ranging from 13% to 17%, and terminal value growth rates ranging from 0% to 11%. Publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of our company was also considered in assessing the reasonableness of the cumulative fair values of our reporting units estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. In May 2003 we determined that indicators of impairment existed for two of our reporting units, ServerWorks and mobile communications, and an additional impairment assessment was performed at that time. We tested the goodwill of these two reporting units for impairment in accordance with SFAS 142. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner as that which is utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2003, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology and IPR&D. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of each of the affected reporting units in 2003. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the excess of the fair value of the affected reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for each of the affected reporting units was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill for that reporting unit exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $438.6 million in June 2003 to write down the value of goodwill associated with the reporting units. Of this charge, $414.5 million represented the balance of goodwill related to the ServerWorks reporting unit and $24.1 million represented the balance of goodwill related to the mobile communications reporting unit. With respect to the ServerWorks reporting unit, the primary factors that contributed to the impairment assessment were additional competitive pressures in the server market and recent design losses experienced by that reporting unit that were attributable, in part, to our ongoing inability to obtain required design information from a third party that is also a competitor. Another factor that contributed to the impairment assessment was the recording of additional goodwill due to contingent consideration earned by former ServerWorks stockholders and employees (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). As a result of the competitive pressures 36 Table of Contents and design losses, we reduced our forecasts of future operating results for the ServerWorks reporting unit for periods beginning as early as the second quarter of 2004 with the expectation of future loss of market share for that business. These forecasts in turn formed the basis for estimating the fair value of the ServerWorks reporting unit as of June 2003. We are continuing to pursue strategies to reposition our ServerWorks business and develop alternative sources of revenue for that reporting unit. With respect to the mobile communications reporting unit, the primary factor that contributed to the impairment assessment was the recording of additional goodwill due to contingent consideration earned by former Mobilink shareholders and employees in May 2003 (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), after that reporting unit had already been written down to its implied fair value in October 2002. In January 2004 we acquired approximately 80 patents and patent applications related to the read channel and hard disk controller market, for $18.0 million. The immediate purpose for acquiring this patent portfolio was to assist us in the defense and settlement of then ongoing and future intellectual property litigation. As a result, we were unable to estimate any future cash flows from the patents. We also did not have any plans to resell the patents to a third party. Due to our intended use for these assets, we concluded that indicators of impairment existed upon acquisition of the patents because the carrying value of the patents might not be recoverable. Upon determining that indicators of impairment existed, we performed a recoverability test in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, or SFAS 144. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of long lived assets should include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with, and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The only cash flows expected to arise as a direct result of the use of the patents are the cash savings expected to result from reduced but undeterminable litigation expenses over the next several years. Due to the unpredictable nature of legal disputes, it is not possible to reasonably: (i) determine if our strategy with respect to the patents will be successful, (ii) forecast litigation expenses that would have been incurred if the patent portfolio was not acquired, or (iii) forecast cash flows generated as a result of acquiring the patents. As a result, no reasonable analysis could be prepared to support future cash flows associated with the patents. Accordingly, pursuant to SFAS 144 the patents were determined to be fully impaired at the date of acquisition. The impairment charge for the patent portfolio was classified as an impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the consolidated statements of operations in 2004. For further discussion of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, see Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Option Exchange Expense In April 2003 we commenced an offering to our employees to voluntarily exchange certain vested and unvested stock options. Under the program, employees holding options to purchase our Class A or Class B common stock were given the opportunity to exchange certain of their existing options, with exercise prices at or above $23.58 per share. In connection with this offering we recorded a stock option exchange expense for employees engaged in research and development and selling, general and administrative activities in the amount of $209.3 million in 2003. No comparable charges were incurred in 2004. On May 5, 2003 the offer period ended and we accepted for exchange and cancellation vested eligible options to purchase 32,642,634 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, with a weighted average exercise price of $48.59 per share. In exchange, we issued 8,574,033 fully vested, non forfeitable shares of our Class A common stock and recorded stock based compensation expense of approximately $162.3 million related to the issuance of such vested shares, based on the closing price of our Class A common stock on May 5, 2003 of $18.93 per share. The 8,574,033 shares were included in our calculation of net loss per share effective as of May 5, 2003. Additionally, on May 5, 2003 we accepted for exchange and cancellation unvested eligible options to purchase 20,086,234 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, with a weighted average exercise price of $50.93 per share. In exchange, new options to purchase 18,301,676 shares of our Class A common stock were issued on November 10, 2003. The terms and conditions of the new options, including the vesting schedules, were substantially the same as the terms and conditions of the options cancelled. The exercise price for the new 37 Table of Contents options was $35.12 per share which was the last reported trading price of our Class A common stock on the grant date. Eligible employees (members of our Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the offer) who participated in the offer received, in exchange for the cancellation of vested eligible options, an amount of consideration, represented by fully vested, non forfeitable common stock, equal to the number of shares underlying such vested eligible options, multiplied by the offered value (as determined under certain terms and conditions set forth in our offer), divided by the closing price of our Class A common stock as reported on the NASDAQ National Market on May 5, 2003. We concluded that the consideration paid for the eligible options represented substantial consideration as required by EITF Issue No. 00 23 Issues Relating to Accounting for Stock Compensation Under APB Opinion No. 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 44, or EITF 00 23, as the offered value per vested option was at least equal to the fair value for each eligible option, as determined using the Black Scholes option pricing model. In determining the fair value of the eligible options using the Black Scholes option pricing model, we primarily used the following assumptions: (i) an expected life of approximately four years; (ii) a volatility of 0.70 during that expected life; (iii) a risk free interest rate of 2.72%; and (iv) no dividends. The weighted average offered value per vested option share was $4.97. Certain of our employees held unvested eligible options that were previously assumed by us in connection with acquisitions that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. We had recorded deferred compensation with respect to those options based upon the applicable stock market valuation at the time of acquisition. To the extent those employees tendered, and we accepted for exchange and cancellation, such assumed eligible options in exchange for new options, we were required to immediately accelerate the amortization of the remaining related deferred compensation previously recorded. Consequently, we recorded a non cash charge of approximately $55.6 million in May 2003, reflecting the acceleration from future periods of stock based compensation expense. Variable accounting is not required under EITF 00 23 for eligible options subject to the offer that were not surrendered for cancellation, because: (i) the shares of Class A common stock offered as consideration for the surrendered options were fully vested and non forfeitable and (ii) the number of shares received by an employee who accepted the offer was based on the number of surrendered eligible options multiplied by the offered value per vested option, divided by the fair value of the stock at the date of exchange. We further concluded that the look back and look forward provisions of paragraph 45 of FIN No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation An Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, or FIN 44, applied to the stock options surrendered for cancellation. If any stock options were granted to participants in the offer within the six months prior to or following May 5, 2003, those stock options would be subject to variable accounting. As a result of these provisions, we recorded approximately $0.3 million and $3.5 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, of stock based compensation expense related to the portion of these variable options that vested during the periods. In addition to the non cash charges described above, we incurred certain associated employer payroll taxes and professional fees of approximately $2.8 million in connection with the offering. Employees were responsible for satisfying their portion of the payroll taxes, either through direct cash payment to us or through the sale of a portion of their new shares. 38 Table of Contents Restructuring Costs Activity and liability balances related to the 2002 and 2001 Restructuring Plans were as follows: 2001 Restructuring Plan 2002 Restructuring Plan Consolidation Consolidation Workforce of Excess Workforce of Excess Reductions Facilities Reductions Facilities Total (In thousands) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2001 $ 124 $ 10,470 $ $ $ 10,594 Charged to expense in 2002 1,411 30,454 65,048 22,767 119,680 Liabilities assumed in acquisition (1) 6,815 6,815 Non cash costs(2) (135 ) (4,868 ) (46,821 ) (1,495 ) (53,319 ) Cash payments(3) (1,400 ) (6,502 ) (16,683 ) (3,494 ) (28,079 ) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2002 29,554 1,544 24,593 55,691 Charged to expense in 2003 2,932 2,932 Non cash costs(2) (972 ) (972 ) Cash payments(3) (11,195 ) (3,504 ) (5,778 ) (20,477 ) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2003 18,359 18,815 37,174 Liabilities assumed in acquisitions (1) 3,411 3,411 Cash payments(3) (6,066 ) (7,402 ) (13,468 ) Restructuring liabilities at December 31, 2004 $ $ 12,293 $ $ 14,824 $ 27,117 (1) Although not related to the 2002 or 2001 Restructuring Plans, we assumed additional liabilities of approximately $6.8 million in connection with the Mobilink acquisition in 2002 and $3.4 million in connection with the Sand Video, WIDCOMM, Zyray and Alphamosaic acquisitions in 2004, for the consolidation of excess facilities, relating primarily to lease terminations, non cancelable lease costs and write offs of leasehold improvements. These costs were accounted for under EITF Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with Purchase Business Combinations, and were recognized as liabilities assumed in the purchase business combinations and offset by corresponding increases in goodwill. The liabilities related to these acquisitions have been classified as restructuring liabilities for presentation in the consolidated balance sheets. (2) Non cash costs related to stock based compensation expense resulting from an extension of the exercise period for vested stock options of certain terminated employees and the acceleration of the vesting period of certain options of certain terminated employees as required by their assumed option agreements, and the write off of leasehold improvements. (3) Cash payments relate to severance and fringe benefits, net lease payments on excess facilities, lease terminations and non cancelable lease costs. These restructuring charges are classified as operating expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. Certain of the restructuring charges were recorded in periods subsequent to the initial implementations of the 2001 and 2002 Restructuring Plans. These subsequent charges were primarily due to the inability to reasonably estimate those costs at the time of the initial implementations as we were still in the process of reviewing many of our facilities to determine where we could consolidate and which locations would no longer be required. We do not anticipate recording any additional charges under the 2001 and 2002 Restructuring Plans. The consolidation of excess facilities costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. 39 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 15,010 0.7 % $ 6,828 0.4 % $ 8,182 119.8 % Other income, net 7,317 0.3 26,053 1.6 (18,736 ) (71.9 ) Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on average cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The increase in 2004 was primarily the result of an overall increase in our cash and marketable securities balances and an increase in interest rates. Other Income, Net. Other income, net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. We recognized gains from strategic investments in the amounts of $5.2 million and $24.4 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2003 gain on investment was incurred on an investment that was previously written down by $24.1 million in September 2002, representing an other than temporary decline in the value of that investment at the time. The 2003 gain was offset in part by $2.3 million in losses, representing other than temporary declines in the value of other strategic investments. For additional information, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, below. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the provision for income taxes for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 75,607 3.2 % $ 25,127 1.5 % $ 50,480 200.9 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2004 and 2003. The difference between our effective tax rate for 2004 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D and foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal statutory rate. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $21.3 million related to foreign subsidiaries due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment of taxes related to such periods. The difference between our effective tax rate for 2003 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of impairment of goodwill, foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal statutory rate, as well as the effects of 2003 domestic losses recorded without tax benefit. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized in accordance with SFAS 109. As a result of our cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carrybacks, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in 2004 and 2003. 40 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 1,082,948 100.0 % $ 527,147 48.7 % Cost of revenue 839,776 52.2 604,397 55.8 235,379 38.9 Gross profit $ 770,319 47.8 % $ 478,551 44.2 % $ 291,768 61.0 Net Revenue. The following table presents net revenue from each of our target markets and their contributions to the increase in net revenue in 2003 as compared to 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 917,876 57.0 % $ 702,562 64.9 % $ 215,314 30.6 % Broadband communications 373,562 23.2 288,609 26.7 84,953 29.4 Mobile and wireless 318,657 19.8 91,777 8.4 226,880 247.2 Net revenue $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 1,082,948 100.0 % $ 527,147 48.7 The growth in net revenue resulted primarily from an increase in volume shipments of our semiconductor products stemming from the rise in demand for our products in each of our major target markets in 2003. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. The 2003 increase in absolute dollars of gross profit resulted primarily from the 48.7% growth in net revenue. The increase in gross margin in 2003 resulted primarily from lower amortization of purchased intangible assets, lower stock based compensation expense and shifts in our product mix, offset in part by additional stock based compensation expense due to our stock option exchange. The following table presents details of certain non cash expenses incurred in manufacturing operations for 2003 and 2002 that are included in cost of revenue: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Stock based compensation expense $ 6,528 0.4 % $ 12,917 1.2 % $ (6,389 ) (49.5 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets 17,207 1.1 56,032 5.2 (38,825 ) (69.3 ) Stock option exchange expense 11,454 0.7 11,454 $ 35,189 2.2 % $ 68,949 6.4 % $ (33,760 ) (49.0 ) 41 Table of Contents Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 434,018 27.0 % $ 461,804 42.6 % $ (27,786 ) (6.0 )% Selling, general and administrative 190,138 11.8 165,267 15.3 24,871 15.0 Research and Development Expense. The 2003 decrease in research and development expense in absolute dollars resulted primarily from a $14.0 million decrease in personnel related expenses and a $7.4 million decrease in prototyping costs due to our restructuring efforts. In addition, there were modest decreases in system level testing and costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware. Research and developments costs in 2003 reflected cost savings resulting from the restructuring plan we began implementing in the fourth quarter of 2002, or the 2002 Restructuring Plan, which included workforce reductions. This was partially offset by new hires in 2003 as well as a change in our employee compensation policies implemented in the second quarter of 2003 that resulted in an increase in cash compensation to certain employees. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. The 2003 increase in selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars resulted primarily from a $16.6 million increase in legal costs. In addition, there were modest increases in salaries and related costs, insurance costs and bad debt expense, offset in part by a decrease in information technology maintenance and supplies expense and expenditures for travel and entertainment. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents stock based compensation expense for employees engaged in research and development and selling, general and administrative activities for 2003 and 2002, which expense was segregated from the presentation of those items in the consolidated statements of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 219,337 13.6 % $ 252,365 23.3 % $ (33,028 ) (13.1 )% Selling, general and administrative 44,623 2.7 107,425 9.8 (62,802 ) (58.5 ) $ 263,960 16.3 % $ 359,790 33.1 % $ (95,830 ) (26.6 ) The 2003 decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to the elimination of deferred compensation due to the termination of certain employees and certain assumed options being fully amortized, offset in part by the acceleration from future periods of stock based compensation expense related to certain assumed stock options and additional deferred compensation related to earned contingent consideration. Employee terminations in 2003 and 2002 resulted in the elimination of deferred compensation of approximately $30.1 million and $103.0 million, respectively, that is no longer amortized. We recorded approximately $60.5 million of net deferred compensation in 2003, primarily for contingent consideration earned in connection with our acquisitions of ServerWorks and Mobilink. We recorded approximately $2.2 million of deferred compensation in 2002, primarily for restricted stock assumed in our acquisition of Mobilink. 42 Table of Contents Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents amortization of purchased intangible assets related to research and development and selling, general and administrative activities for 2003 and 2002, which expense was segregated from the presentation of those items in the consolidated statements of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 815 0.0 % $ 19,566 1.8 % $ (18,751 ) (95.8 )% Selling, general and administrative 2,689 0.2 2,821 0.3 (132 ) (4.7 ) $ 3,504 0.2 % $ 22,387 2.1 % $ (18,883 ) (84.3 ) The 2003 decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets was primarily a result of certain purchased intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the year. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The following table presents impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets $ 439,611 27.3 % $ 1,265,038 116.8 % $ (825,427 ) (65.2 )% For impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in 2003, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, above. We performed our annual impairment assessment of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with our various acquisitions required under SFAS 142 in October 2002 and determined that the carrying values of four of our seven reporting units exceeded their estimated fair values. The four affected reporting units were broadband processors, client server networking, mobile communications and ServerWorks. Because indicators of impairment existed for these four reporting units, we performed the second step of the test required under SFAS 142 to determine the fair value of the goodwill for each of the affected reporting units. We tested the goodwill of these reporting units for impairment in accordance with SFAS 142, as described above. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $1.241 billion in October 2002. Of such charge, $536.0 million related to the goodwill of our broadband processor reporting unit, $206.1 million related to the goodwill of our client server networking reporting unit, $179.6 million related to the goodwill of our mobile communications reporting unit and $319.3 million related to the goodwill of our ServerWorks reporting unit. The primary factors resulting in the 2002 impairment charge were: (i) the continued significant economic slowdown in the technology sector and the semiconductor industry, which affected both our operations at that time and our expectations with respect to future revenue, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our stock, and (iii) unfavorable revisions in revenue and cash flow expectations regarding certain of our acquired businesses. These acquired businesses were priced based on valuation multiples that were indicative of the value at which businesses were purchased and sold at that time, but were inflated relative to historical and subsequent standards. In the second and third quarters of 2002 demand for servers, WAN networking equipment, handheld devices and other products using our chips declined relative to the demand that was anticipated when certain of our purchase acquisitions were consummated. In addition, we recognized that a sustained decline in demand combined with an oversupply of these products resulted in increased price competition for certain chipsets, giving effect to shrinking profit margins and expected future cash flows for our four affected reporting units. In response to the existing market conditions, we initiated a 43 Table of Contents restructuring program in the fourth quarter of 2002 that included significant headcount reductions, and we decreased our investment in certain target markets that were either performing below our expectations or had low near term growth potential. As a result, we revised our forecasts of future operating results, which were in turn used in calculating the estimated fair values of the reporting units. In December 2003 and 2002, we acquired over 150 patents related to various technologies, including among others, wireless networking topologies and protocols, dual mode wireless transceivers, power management in integrated circuits, Ethernet networking, personal video recording, and VoIP telephony, for $1.0 million and $24.0 million, respectively. Pursuant to SFAS 144 the patents were determined to be fully impaired at their respective dates of acquisition. The impairment charge for the patent portfolio was classified as an impairment of intangible assets in the consolidated statements of operations in 2003 and 2002. For further discussion of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, see Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Settlement Costs The following table presents settlement costs for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Settlement costs $ 194,509 12.1 % $ 3,000 0.3 % $ 191,509 6,383 % For settlement costs in 2003, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, above. For a more detailed discussion of our settled and outstanding litigation, see Notes 3 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Option Exchange Expense For stock option exchange expense in 2003, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, above. There was no comparable stock option exchange expense in 2002. Restructuring Costs The following table presents restructuring costs for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Restructuring costs $ 2,932 0.2 % $ 119,680 11.1 % $ (116,748 ) (97.6 )% For a description of our restructuring activities in 2003 and 2002, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, above. 44 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 6,828 0.4 % $ 12,183 1.1 % $ (5,355 ) (44.0 )% Other income (expense), net 26,053 1.6 (32,750 ) (3.0 ) 58,803 179.6 Interest Income, Net. The decrease in 2003 resulted primarily from a decline in interest rates, offset in part by a decline in interest expense on lower average debt balances. Other Income (Expense), Net For Other Income (Expense), Net in 2003, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, above. In 2002 we recorded impairment losses on strategic investments of approximately $37.8 million. We recorded a loss of approximately $4.1 million in February 2002, which was based on information that led us to believe that the investee was proceeding into either a major financial restructuring and or bankruptcy. This belief was based on our working knowledge of the investee, the fact that we had been solicited by the investee company for continued financings, and the poor performance of venture technology investments in the geographical region. Previously, this privately held investment was reduced to its fair value of $4.1 million in September 2001 based on a then recent round of financing. We also recorded impairment losses on strategic investments of $33.7 million in September 2002. Approximately $24.1 million related to a second privately held investment. Originally, this investment had high growth prospects and was proposed to be selected for a key customer design win. This key design win potentially would have generated hundreds of millions in revenue over the next several years and positioned the investee for either an initial public offering or as an acquisition target. Ultimately, the investee did not secure the key design win, and, accordingly, was forced to enter into discussions to obtain a subsequent round of financing at a lower valuation. Therefore, at September 30, 2002 we believed it was necessary to permanently reduce the carrying value of this investment to its fair value, based on the term sheet for the potential subsequent financing. In addition, approximately $7.8 million in impairment losses was related to a third privately held investment. The impairment was caused by an impending financing that was offered at a price substantially lower than our previously reduced carrying value. Earlier, this privately held investment was reduced to its fair value of $8.8 million in September 2001 based on a pricing model using historical financial information. In September 2002 we recorded an additional $1.8 million in impairment losses relating to other strategic investments using the methodologies described above. The losses recorded in 2002 were offset in part by approximately $4.6 million in gains realized on sales of an investment in a publicly traded company. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents provision for income taxes for 2003 and 2002: Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 25,127 1.5 % $ 297,594 27.5 % $ (272,467 ) (91.6 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2003 and 2002. No income tax benefit has been recorded for domestic tax losses. Our income tax expense in 2003 and 2002 primarily represents taxes on certain foreign 45 Table of Contents operations and increases in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. As a result of our cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carrybacks, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in 2003 and 2002. Subsequent Events In February 2005 our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. The Board approved the repurchase of shares having an aggregate value of up to $250 million from time to time over a period of one year, depending on market conditions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, which is a revision of SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, or SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not allow the previously permitted pro forma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. SFAS 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, or APB 25, and related interpretations and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows, or SFAS 95. SFAS 123R is scheduled to be effective beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. SFAS 123R allows for either prospective recognition of compensation expense or retroactive recognition, which may date back to the original issuance of SFAS 123 or only to interim periods in the year of adoption. We are currently evaluating these transition methods. The adoption of the SFAS 123R fair value method will have a significant impact on our reported results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position. The impact of adoption of SFAS 123R cannot be predicted at this time because that will depend on the fair value and number of share based payments granted in the future. However, had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the magnitude of the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black Scholes model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro forma loss per share in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. While we cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future, the amount of operating cash flows recognized in 2004 for such excess tax deductions was $81.8 million. No comparable amounts were recorded in 2003 and 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities on Hand. The following table presents working capital and cash and marketable securities on hand: December 31, December 31, 2004 2003 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 1,087,342 $ 492,227 $ 595,115 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 858,592 $ 558,669 $ 299,923 Short term marketable securities(1) 324,041 47,296 276,745 Long term marketable securities 92,918 36,405 56,513 $ 1,275,551 $ 642,370 $ 633,181 (1) Included in working capital Our working capital increased in 2004 primarily from cash provided by operations and cash proceeds from issuances of common stock in connection with the exercise of employee stock options and our employee stock 46 Table of Contents purchase plan, offset in part by cash paid in purchase transactions and the purchase of long term marketable securities and property and equipment. Cash Provided and Used in 2004 and 2003. Cash and cash equivalents increased to $858.6 million at December 31, 2004 from $558.7 million at December 31, 2003 as a result of cash provided by operating and financing activities, offset in part by cash used in investing activities. In 2004 our operating activities provided $501.8 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $218.7 million in net income and $324.7 million in net non cash operating expenses, offset in part by net cash used of $41.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income include depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPR&D, impairment of intangible assets, tax benefit from stock plans and gains on strategic investments. In 2003 our operating activities provided $30.6 million in cash. Although we had a net loss of $959.9 million and used cash of $95.0 million related to changes in net operating assets and liabilities, these amounts were more than offset by $1.085 billion in non cash items.. Non cash items included in net loss in 2003 included depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, stock option exchange expense, certain settlement costs, certain restructuring charges, net gains on strategic investments and development revenue. Accounts receivable decreased $15.0 million from $220.1 million in 2003 to $205.1 million in 2004. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily the result of improved shipment linearity and collections during the fourth quarter of 2004. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If, in the longer term, our revenue continues to increase as it has in the most recent past, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers. Inventories increased $24.2 million to $128.3 million in 2004 primarily due an expansion of inventory in response to higher levels of purchase orders received from our customers. In the future, our inventory levels will be determined based on these factors as well as the stage in which our products are in their respective product life cycles and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing activities used cash of $456.0 million in 2004, which was primarily the result of $333.3 million used in the net purchase of marketable securities, $74.8 million net cash paid in purchase transactions, the purchase of $49.9 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the purchase of $3.2 million of strategic investments, offset by $5.2 million in net proceeds received from the sale of strategic investments. Investing activities provided cash of $42.5 million in 2003, which was primarily the result of $69.7 million in net proceeds received from the maturities of marketable securities and $29.2 million in net proceeds received from the sale of strategic investments, offset in part by the purchase of $47.9 million of capital equipment to support our operations, the purchase of $5.9 million in net assets of a business and the purchase of $2.5 million of strategic investments. Our financing activities provided $254.1 million in cash in 2004, which was primarily the result of $253.3 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. Cash provided by financing activities was $96.0 million in 2003, which was primarily the result of $207.5 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, offset in part by $113.5 million in repayments of debt and other obligations. Due to the increase in the price of our Class A common stock, a greater number of employees exercised stock options and we received more proceeds from the exercise of stock options in 2004 than in 2003. The timing and number of stock option exercises are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. In addition, we have started to issue to employees a combination of restricted stock units and employee stock options. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units will not result in any cash proceeds and will require the use of cash as we have determined to allow employees to elect to have a portion of their shares 47 Table of Contents issuable during 2005 withheld to satisfy withholding taxes and then make corresponding cash payments to the appropriate taxing authorities on each employees behalf. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2004: Payment Obligations by Year (In thousands) There 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 after Total Operating leases $ 86,526 $ 76,831 $ 51,568 $ 42,966 $ 37,570 $ 159,724 $ 455,185 Inventory and other related purchased obligations 113,430 113,430 Other purchase obligations 45,360 4,348 2,136 51,844 Restructuring liabilities 10,364 5,990 4,495 2,507 2,507 1,254 27,117 Accrued settlement payments 10,700 2,000 2,000 2,000 16,700 $ 266,380 $ 89,169 $ 60,199 $ 47,473 $ 40,077 $ 160,978 $ 664,276 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2017. In December 2004 we entered into a lease agreement under which our corporate headquarters will move from its present location to a new, larger facility in Irvine, California, which will eventually consist of eight buildings with an aggregate of approximately 0.7 million square feet. The lease term is a period of ten years and two months beginning after the completion of the first two buildings and related tenant improvements, which is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2007. The aggregate rent for the term of the lease, approximately $183.0 million, is included in the table above. Inventory and other related purchase obligations are comprised of purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from these subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the next six months. Our subcontractor relationships allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require repayment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. Other purchase obligations are comprised of purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, information systems infrastructure and other purchase commitments in the ordinary course of business. Our restructuring liabilities consist of estimated future lease and operating costs on restructured facilities, less offsetting sublease income, if any. These costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Settlement payments represent payments to be made in connection with certain settlement and license agreements entered into in 2004. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the exercise of employee stock options, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments and repurchases of our Class A common stock for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other 48 Table of Contents businesses, assets, products or technologies. We could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We have in effect a universal shelf registration statement on SEC Form S 3 that allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, shares of our Class A common stock, shares of preferred stock or debt securities, or any combination of such securities, for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. However, we have not issued nor do we have immediate plans to issue securities to raise capital under the universal shelf registration statement. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; volume price discounts and customer rebates; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability of sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our new products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; expenses related to our restructuring plans; changes in our compensation policies; the exercise of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan; use of restricted stock units and the related payment in cash of withholding taxes due from employees; and general economic conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, including the effects of recent international conflicts and the general economic slowdown and related uncertainties. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. 49 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. For instance, our net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2004 decreased by 16.6% over the level achieved in the three months ended September 30, 2004. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: changes in accounting rules, such as the change requiring the recording of expenses for employee stock options and other stock based compensation that is scheduled to go into effect in the third quarter of 2005; a possible adverse outcome in or the settlement of our pending securities litigation or other actual or threatened litigation; the overall cyclicality of, and changing economic and market conditions in, the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; our ability to develop new sources of revenue to replace lost revenue from our declining Intel processor based server chipset business; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels that we need to implement our business and product plans; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies and products in our target markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our foundries, and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; and the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. 50 Table of Contents We continue to derive a larger portion of our product revenue from relatively newer markets. We expect new product lines to continue to account for a high percentage of our future sales. Some of these markets are immature and unpredictable, and we cannot assure you that these markets will develop into significant opportunities or that we will continue to derive significant revenue from these markets. Based on the limited amount of historical data available to us, it is difficult to predict our future revenue streams from, and the sustainability of, such newer markets. Additionally, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. We believe that we may become subject to some seasonality in demand for our solutions that are designed for use in consumer products, such as desktop and notebook computers, cellphones and other mobile communication devices, other wireless enabled consumer electronics, and satellite and digital cable set top boxes, which may result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Report, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2004 the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which is a revision of SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not permit pro forma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. SFAS 123R is scheduled to be effective beginning in the third quarter of 2005. The adoption of the SFAS 123R fair value method will have a significant adverse impact on our reported results of operations because the stock based compensation expense will be charged directly against our reported earnings. The impact of our adoption of SFAS 123R cannot be predicted at this time because that will depend on the future fair values and number of share based payments granted in the future. However, had we adopted SFAS 123 in prior periods, the magnitude of the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black Scholes model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro forma loss per share in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Continuing worldwide political and economic uncertainties may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. In the last three years, worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and broadband communications markets, the lingering effects of the war in Iraq, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We recently experienced a slowdown in orders and a reduction in net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2004 that we believe was attributable in substantial part to excess inventory held by certain of our customers. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, worldwide or in the broadband communications markets. If the economy or the broadband communications markets in which we operate do not recover, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Any such variations could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or the broadband communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our 51 Table of Contents revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Our stock price is highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. In addition we, like many other companies that experience volatility in the market prices of their securities, are engaged in securities litigation. An adverse outcome in such litigation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since January 1, 2002 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $9.52 and as high as $53.35 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; changes in accounting rules, particularly those related to the expensing of stock options; announcements of changes in our senior management; the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets; continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; changes in investor perceptions; or changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. As noted in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have been sued in several purported securities class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated into a single action, as well as other securities litigation. Although we believe that those lawsuits are without merit, the plaintiffs in our pending securities class action litigation have asserted that, if liability is found, damages may exceed $4.5 billion. Trial for our pending securities litigation is scheduled to commence in September 2005. An adverse determination in, or the settlement of, our pending securities litigation could require us to pay amounts that exceed the coverage that remains available to us under our directors and officers insurance, which amounts could be substantial. Such an event could have a very significant effect on our business and results of operations, and could materially and adversely affect the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, it is likely that the lawsuits will continue to divert managements attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect the price of our stock. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchase orders for our products. We currently do not have the ability to accurately predict 52 Table of Contents what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products, are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management, and may be involved in legal proceedings that could affect their ability to buy our products. However, we place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, or at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. Our efforts to develop new revenue sources and replace lost revenue sources for our ServerWorks business may not be successful. In the past few years, a significant portion of our total net revenue has been derived from our chipset business for servers based on Intel processors. However, in 2003 that business experienced design losses that were attributable, in part, to our ongoing inability to obtain required design information from a third party that is also a competitor. During the second half of 2004 we experienced the first real impact of the long anticipated decline in our Intel processor based server chipset business, and we anticipate a steeper decline in that business going forward. We are now pursuing strategies to diversify our revenue stream beyond Intel based platforms and to develop alternative sources of revenue for the business. Our new areas of focus are alternative server I/ O chipset platforms and the storage market. During 2004 we began to develop server platform products that support the AMD Opterontm processor; however, these products are not expected to generate any substantial revenue until the second half of 2005. We cannot assure you that these strategies will be successful, and it is likely that we will not be able to make up the loss of revenue from our Intel processor based server chipset business in the near term. If our strategies to reposition our server chipset business are not successful, or if revenues from our other businesses do not increase, our revenue, revenue growth rate and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could seriously harm our business. On January 3, 2005 Scott A. McGregor joined Broadcom as President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McGregor succeeded our former President and CEO, Alan E. Ross, who retired from these positions upon Mr. McGregors arrival but remains a member of the Board of Directors. The integration of Mr. McGregor into our business and operations, and any adjustments or changes that may be implemented by Mr. McGregor, may require the substantial attention of our Board of Directors and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of other key senior management personnel, including our co founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Henry Samueli, Ph.D., and other senior executives. We do not have employment agreements with these executives, or any other key employees, that govern the length of their service, although we do have limited retention arrangements in place with certain executives. The loss of the services of Dr. Samueli or certain other key senior management or technical personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, if any of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for and while any such successor is integrated into our business and operations. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, RF and mixed signal circuit designers and systems applications engineers. Competition for these employees is intense. If 53 Table of Contents we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Stock options generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees. In April and May 2003 we conducted a stock option exchange offer to address the substantial decline in the price of our Class A common stock over the preceding two years and to improve our ability to retain key employees. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate employees if our Class A common stock experiences another substantial price decline. We have also modified our compensation policies by increasing cash compensation to certain employees and instituting awards of restricted stock units, while simultaneously reducing awards of stock options. This modification of our compensation policies and the FASB requirement to expense the fair value of stock options awarded to employees beginning in the third quarter of 2005 will increase our operating expenses. We cannot be certain that the changes in our compensation policies will improve our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees and the increase in stock based compensation expense could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to expand. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion in the past. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce, from 2,580 employees, including contractors, as of December 31, 2002 to 3,373 employees, including contractors, as of December 31, 2004. This past growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to help us improve our planning and management processes and a new human resources management, or HRM, system, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, such as a new material requirements planning, or MRP, system, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. In addition, to support our growth we recently signed a lease agreement under which we will relocate our headquarters and Irvine operations to new, larger facilities that will enable us to centralize all of our Irvine employees and operations on one campus. This relocation is currently anticipated to begin in the first quarter of 2007. We may also engage in other relocations of our employees or operations from time to time. Such relocations could result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of our managements attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 51.1%, 51.6% and 52.3% of our net revenue n 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further 54 Table of Contents details. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2005 and for the foreseeable future. The identity of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; many of our customers have pre existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect their decisions to purchase our products; our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; and some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. We may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual most favored nation pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our future success depends in significant part on strategic relationships with certain customers. If we cannot maintain these relationships or if these customers develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solutions instead of buying our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the past, we have relied in significant part on our strategic relationships with customers that are technology leaders in our target markets. We intend to pursue the formation of these strategic relationships but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our customers frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to our strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development could impair our relationships with our strategic customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitors solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our sales would decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy may be dilutive to existing shareholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2004, we acquired 28 companies and certain assets of one other business. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. We also continually evaluate the performance and prospects of our various businesses and possible adjustments in our businesses to reflect changes in our assessment of their performance and prospects. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information 55 Table of Contents systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired companys technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the typical size of the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Alternatively, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition. We have in effect an acquisition shelf registration statement on SEC Form S 4 that enables us to issue up to 30 million shares of our Class A common stock in one or more acquisition transactions that we may enter into from time to time. Any additional issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. For example, as a consequence of the prior pooling of interests accounting rules, the securities issued in nine of our prior acquisitions were shares of Class B common stock, which have voting rights superior to our publicly traded Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We must keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and broadband communications markets to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers changing demands. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these broadband communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the broadband communications markets and to introduce and promote those products successfully. These rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards make it difficult to formulate a long term growth strategy 56 Table of Contents because the semiconductor industry and broadband communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. If new markets do not develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor solutions for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost effective and timely manner, and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our historical quarterly results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; accurately define new products; timely and accurately identify opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new product designs; timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the products of our customers into which our products will be incorporated; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; achieve high manufacturing yields; shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and gain market acceptance of our products and our customers products. In some of our businesses, our ability to develop and deliver next generation products successfully depends in part on access to information from companies that are our competitors. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers as these customers may transition to other companies that can meet their product development needs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. In addition, approximately 21.6% of our net revenue in 2004 was derived from sales to independent customers outside the United States. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented approximately 79.0% of our net revenue in 2004. In 1999 we established an international distribution center in Singapore that includes an engineering design center. We also undertake design, development activities in Belgium, Canada, China, France, India, Israel, the Netherlands, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in several other countries. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. The recent war in Iraq and the lingering effects of terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, the resulting heightened security and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales and could make our 57 Table of Contents international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; natural disasters and public health emergencies; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; trade and travel restrictions; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; foreign technical standards; changes in taxation and tariffs; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. We currently operate under tax holidays in certain foreign jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy such tax holidays or realize any net tax benefits from such tax holidays. The seasonality of international sales and economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We hold more than 800 U.S. patents and have filed more than 3,000 additional U.S. patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross license agreements. Moreover, because we have participated in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and or other third parties. Such open source 58 Table of Contents software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, or GPL, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and or stop distribution of that work. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software as described above. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine Broadcom proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, some of our customers have entered into agreements with us that grant them the right to use our proprietary technology if we ever fail to fulfill our obligations, including product supply obligations, under those agreements, and if we do not correct the failure within a specified time period. Moreover, we often incorporate the intellectual property of strategic customers into our own designs, and have certain obligations not to use or disclose their intellectual property without their authorization. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We have in the past engaged and may in the future engage in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation has been and will likely continue to be very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our operations. Third party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management or other key employees. Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Moreover, in several instances we have been engaged in litigation with parties who claimed that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. In addition, we or our customers may be sued by other parties who claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, could increase our costs of revenue and could expose us to 59 Table of Contents significant liability. Any of these claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology, and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. We may also have to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, result in liability for combinations of components or system level designs and consequential damages and or lost profits. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Additionally, we have sought and may in the future seek to obtain a license under a third partys intellectual property rights and have granted and may in the future grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if we are able to obtain one at all. Our products may contain technology provided to us by third parties. Because we did not develop such technology ourselves, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our products into their product offerings or if our customers product offerings are not commercially successful. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products. Without these design wins, it becomes difficult to sell our products. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may be our competitors and, accordingly, may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Once an equipment manufacturer designs a competitors product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an equipment manufacturer designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue from that product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers products. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins or that our customers equipment incorporating our products will ever be commercially successful. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in our target markets. We also compete with suppliers of system level and motherboard level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for some of our products. In all of our target markets we also may face competition from 60 Table of Contents newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. We also expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. In some of our businesses, we are dependent on competitors for information for the timely development of next generation products, and such information may not always be given to us on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. We depend on six independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. Six third party foundry subcontractors located in Asia manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices in current production. Availability of foundry capacity has at times in the past been reduced due to strong demand. In addition, a recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or the occurrence of a significant outbreak of avian influenza among humans or another public health emergency in Asia could further affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our existing foundries, or in the event of a quarantine or closure at any of these foundries, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In September 1999 two of our foundries principal facilities were affected by a significant earthquake in Taiwan. As a consequence of this earthquake, they suffered power outages and equipment damage that impaired their wafer deliveries, which, together with strong demand, resulted in wafer shortages and higher wafer pricing industrywide. If any of our foundries experiences a shortage in capacity, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, suffers an adverse outcome in pending litigation, or encounters financial difficulties or any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may need to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. Even our current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. We typically require several months to qualify a new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from it. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. Because we rely on outside foundries with limited capacity, we face several significant risks, including: a lack of guaranteed wafer supply and potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices; limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. Poor 61 Table of Contents yields from our foundries could result in product shortages or delays in product shipments, which could seriously harm our relationships with our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we do not have a long term volume purchase agreement or a significant guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our foundries. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use six independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor products, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. Also, our third party foundries typically migrate capacity to newer, state of the art manufacturing processes on a regular basis, which may create capacity shortages for our products designed to be manufactured on an older process. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or new foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that our foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. These and other related factors could impair our ability to meet our customers needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Although we may utilize new foundries for other products in the future, in using new foundries we will be subject to all of the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs with respect to our current foundries. We depend on third party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales. We do not own or operate an assembly or test facility. Seven third party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. Because we rely on third party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. In the recent past we and others in our industry experienced a shortage in the supply of packaging substrates that we use for our products. If our third party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our net sales. We do not have long term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. 62 Table of Contents However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently most of our products are manufactured in .25 micron, .22 micron, .18 micron and .13 micron geometry processes. In addition, we have begun to migrate some of our products to 90 nanometer process technology. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product life cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need three to more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. In addition, anticipated sales could be materially and adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be 63 Table of Contents adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by us and our suppliers and customers, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or field replacement costs. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, system and handset providers who purchase components may require that we assume liability for defects associated with products produced by their manufacturing subcontractors and require that we provide a warranty for defects or other problems which may arise at the system level. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. The six primary independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our current products and our California and Singapore facilities are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Two of the six third party foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices are located in Taiwan and one such third party foundry is located in Japan. Both Taiwan and Japan have experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional earthquakes. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, such as a tsunami, in a country in which any of our foundries is located could significantly disrupt our foundries production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake fault lines, and our international distribution center is located in Singapore, which could be subject to an earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by the FCC, other federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over each of our target markets. Although current FCC regulations and the laws and regulations of other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products. Accordingly, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, materially and adversely impact our business. For example, in the past we have experienced delays when products incorporating our chips failed to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial 64 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere could also materially and adversely affect our business. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year beginning in 2004, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports beginning with this Report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, managements assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving the company have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2004, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We may experience difficulties in implementing or enhancing new information systems. We recently implemented a new ERP information system to manage our business operations and a new HRM system, and we intend to implement a new MRP information system. The implementation and migration to a new MRP system could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner: accept and process customer orders, receive inventory and ship products, invoice and collect receivables, place purchase orders and pay invoices, and process other business transactions related to the order entry, purchasing, and, supply chain processes within a new MRP system. Any such disruption could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, if any of the providers of our information systems do not choose to continue supporting the systems we have implemented, we may be forced to switch to new information systems, which could result in further disruptions. We may seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or by borrowing money, but additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated by operations and from the exercise of employee stock options will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments and repurchases of our Class A common stock for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our 65 Table of Contents activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. We could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We have in effect a universal shelf registration statement on SEC Form S 3 that allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, shares of our Class A common stock, shares of preferred stock or debt securities, or any combination of such securities, for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. However, we have not issued nor do we have immediate plans to issue securities to raise capital under the universal shelf registration statement. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Our co founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates can control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, and accordingly we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without their approval. As of December 31, 2004 our co founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 17.8% of our outstanding common stock and held 65.2% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2004 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III, who is no longer an officer or director of the company, and Dr. Henry Samueli, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, beneficially owned a total of approximately 16.6% of our outstanding common stock and held 64.1% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders. These actions and transactions include changes in control of our Board of Directors, mergers, and the sale of control of our company by means of a tender offer, open market purchases or other purchases of our Class A common stock, or otherwise. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, we have in the past issued and may in the future issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, upon exercise of certain stock options, and for other purposes. Class B shares have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared with one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock). Our Board of Directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue such shares without a shareholder vote. It is possible that the provisions in our charter documents, the exercise of supervoting rights by holders of our Class B common stock, our co founders, directors and officers ownership of a majority of the Class B common stock, or the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or additional shares of Class B common stock may prevent or discourage third parties from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these factors may discourage third parties from bidding for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price for our stock. These factors may also materially and adversely affect voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock and the market price of our Class A common stock. 66 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. We do not use derivative financial instruments. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of December 31, 2004 the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our marketable debt securities, consisting of U.S. Treasury and agency obligations, commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, time deposits, foreign notes and certificates of deposits, are generally classified as held to maturity and are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. In addition, in the past certain of our short term marketable debt securities were classified as available for sale and were stated at fair value, which was equal to cost due to the short term maturity of these securities. In the event that there were to be a difference between fair value and cost in any of our available for sale securities, unrealized holding gains and losses on these investments would be reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Our investment policy for marketable debt securities requires that all securities mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than one year. As of December 31, 2004 the carrying value and fair value of these securities were approximately $417.0 million and $415.8 million, respectively. The fair value of our marketable debt securities fluctuates based on changes in market conditions and interest rates; however, given the short term maturities, we do not believe these instruments are subject to significant market or interest rate risk. The carrying value, maturity and estimated fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were as follows: Carrying Fair Value Maturity Value December 31, December 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 356,845 $ 356,845 $ $ $ 356,831 Weighted average interest rate 2.33 % 2.33 % Marketable debt securities $ 416,959 $ 324,041 $ 69,717 $ 23,201 $ 415,757 Weighted average interest rate 2.40 % 2.30 % 2.64 % 3.12 % Carrying Fair Value Maturity Value December 31, December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2003 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 64,299 $ 64,299 $ $ $ 64,299 Weighted average interest rate 1.15 % 1.15 % Marketable debt securities $ 83,701 $ 47,296 $ 17,273 $ 19,132 $ 84,050 Weighted average interest rate 2.20 % 2.08 % 2.26 % 2.46 % Our strategic equity investments are generally classified as available for sale and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for our publicly traded investments. We have also invested in privately held companies, the majority of which can still be considered to be in the start up or development stage. We make investments in key business partners and other industry participants to establish strategic relationships, expand existing relationships, and achieve a return on our investment. These investments are inherently risky, as the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages 67 Table of Contents and may never materialize. Likewise, the development projects of these companies may not be successful. In addition, early stage companies often fail to succeed for various other reasons. Consequently, we could lose our entire investment in these companies. As of December 31, 2004, the carrying and fair value of our strategic investments was approximately $5.2 million. 
 
