Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. Broadcom provides the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. Our diverse product portfolio includes solutions for digital cable, satellite and Internet Protocol (IP) set top boxes and media servers; high definition television (HDTV); high definition DVD players and personal video recording (PVR) devices; cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; SystemI/O server solutions; broadband network and security processors; wireless and personal area networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems. Net Revenue. We sell our products to leading manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment in each of our target markets. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into equipment used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products. Our net revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Such sales represented approximately 99.1%, 99.0% and 98.5% of our total net revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We derive the remaining balance of our net revenue predominantly from software licenses, development agreements, support and maintenance agreements and cancellation fees. The majority of our sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. Sales made through distributors represented approximately 15.6%, 9.6% and 7.1% of our total net revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in 2005 was the result of more of our solutions being sold through distributors in Asia. The demand for our products has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; seasonality in the demand for consumer products into which our solutions are incorporated; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our products and technologies in our target markets; and the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. For these and other reasons, our net revenue and results of operations in 2005 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the increasing volume of Broadcom solutions that are incorporated into consumer products, sales of which are typically subject to greater seasonality and greater volume fluctuations than non consumer OEM products. 42 Table of Contents Sales to our five largest customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Motorola 15.5 % 12.4 % * Hewlett Packard * 12.9 15.5 % Dell * * 11.9 Five largest customers as a group 45.3 51.1 51.6 * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2006 and for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Net revenue derived from all independent customers located outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States, as a percentage of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Asia (primarily in Taiwan, Korea and China) 17.8 % 15.0 % 19.6 % Europe (primarily in France and the United Kingdom) 7.6 6.4 5.9 Other 0.4 0.2 0.3 25.8 % 21.6 % 25.8 % Net revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, primarily to Asia, represented approximately 84.5%, 79.0% and 77.7% of our net revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Gross Margin. Our gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of net revenue, has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales; stock based compensation expense; the position of our products in their respective life cycles; the effects of competition; the effects of competitive pricing programs; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as wafer pricing and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and overhead costs such as prototyping expenses; product warranty costs; provisions for excess or obsolete inventories; amortization of purchased intangible assets; and licensing and royalty arrangements. Net Income (Loss). Our net income (loss) has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: stock based compensation expense; amortization of purchased intangible assets; in process research and development, or IPR&D; 43 Table of Contents settlement costs; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries; gain (loss) on strategic investments; stock option exchange expense; and restructuring costs or reversals thereof. In 2005 our net income was approximately $411.7 million as compared to $218.7 million in 2004, a difference of $193.0 million. This improvement in profitability in 2005 was the direct result of a 11.3% improvement in net revenue and a 2.3 percentage point improvement in gross margin. This resulted in an increase of $198.2 million in gross profit. In addition, we had reductions in 2005 in stock based compensation expense, IPR&D, impairment of intangible assets and provision for income taxes, aggregating approximately $148.3 million, offset by an increase in settlement costs of approximately $41.3 million. Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than six months, with an additional three to more than nine months before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and or enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. In 2005, 2004 and 2003 we completed eleven acquisitions for original aggregate equity consideration of $292.2 million and cash consideration of $209.3 million. In 2005 we acquired Alliant Networks, Inc., a developer of WLAN embedded software; Zeevo, Inc., a developer of Bluetooth headset chipsets; Siliquent Technologies Inc., a developer of 10 Gigabit Ethernet server controllers; and Athena Semiconductors, Inc., a developer of mobile digital television tuner and low power Wi Fi technology. In 2004 we acquired RAIDCore, Inc., a developer of redundant array of inexpensive disks, or RAID, and virtualization software; Sand Video, Inc., a developer of advanced video compression semiconductor technology; M Stream, Inc., a developer of technology for signal to noise ratio performance improvements in cellular handsets; WIDCOMM, Inc., a provider of software solutions for Bluetooth wireless products; Zyray Wireless Inc., a developer of baseband co processors addressing UMTS mobile devices; and Alphamosaic Limited, a developer of advanced mobile imaging, multimedia and 3D graphics technology optimized for use in cellular phones and other mobile devices. In 2003 we acquired certain assets of Gadzoox Networks, Inc., a provider of storage networking technology. Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase transaction, the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Enterprise Segments. We operate in one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, or SFAS 131, establishes standards for the way public business enterprises report information about operating segments in annual consolidated financial statements and requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in interim financial reports. SFAS 131 also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. Although we had four operating segments at December 31, 2005, under the aggregation criteria set forth in SFAS 131 we operate in only one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. 44 Table of Contents Under SFAS 131, two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single operating segment for financial reporting purposes if aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS 131, if the segments have similar economic characteristics, and if the segments are similar in each of the following areas: the nature of products and services; the nature of the production processes; the type or class of customer for their products and services; and the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services. We meet each of the aggregation criteria for the following reasons: the sale of integrated circuits is the only material source of revenue for each of our four operating segments; the integrated circuits sold by each of our operating segments use the same standard CMOS manufacturing processes; the integrated circuits marketed by each of our operating segments are sold to one type of customer: manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment, which incorporate our integrated circuits into their electronic products; and all of our integrated circuits are sold through a centralized sales force and common wholesale distributors. All of our operating segments share similar economic characteristics as they have a similar long term business model, operate at similar gross margins, and have similar research and development expenses and similar selling, general and administrative expenses. The causes for variation among each of our operating segments are the same and include factors such as (i) life cycle and price and cost fluctuations, (ii) number of competitors, (iii) product differentiation and (iv) size of market opportunity. Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required are similar for each operating segment. Finally, even though we periodically reorganize our operating segments based upon changes in customers, end markets or products, acquisitions, long term growth strategies, and the experience and bandwidth of the senior executives in charge, the common financial goals for each operating segment remain constant. Because we meet each of the criteria set forth in SFAS 131 and our four operating segments as of December 31, 2005 share similar economic characteristics, we aggregate our results of operations into one reportable operating segment. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Net Revenue We recognize product revenue when the following fundamental criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, 45 Table of Contents we do not recognize revenue until all customer acceptance requirements have been met, when applicable. A portion of our sales are made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. Product revenue on sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents and the completion of any customer acceptance requirements, when applicable, are used to verify product delivery or that services have been rendered. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. Sales Returns and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. Additional reductions to revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory and Warranty Reserves. We establish inventory reserves for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory reserves could be required. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our gross profit and gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense for 2006 and Thereafter. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Under this standard, the fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our share based payments. The Black Scholes model meets the requirements of SFAS 123R but the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our stock based awards as it does not consider certain factors important to stock based awards, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements and limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the 46 Table of Contents fair market value of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. Stock based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements in 2006 and thereafter is based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest. The amount of stock based compensation expense in 2006 and thereafter will be reduced for estimated forfeitures based on historical experience. Forfeitures are required to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We will evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the magnitude of the impact of that standard on our results of operations would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black Scholes option pricing model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per share in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization, and the amount assigned to in process research and development is expensed immediately. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) another significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In the process of our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business. It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Tax Contingencies. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction to income tax expense in the period of such realization. We record estimated income tax liabilities to the extent they are probable and can be reasonably estimated. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in 47 Table of Contents which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially to reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. From time to time, we are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement charges. In addition the resolution of any future intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact gross profit and gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a charge equal to at least the minimum estimated liability for a loss contingency when both of the following conditions are met: (i) information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and (ii) the range of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, the actual liability in any such litigation may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional costs. 48 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue(1) 47.3 49.6 51.1 Cost of revenue stock based compensation 0.1 0.1 1.1 Gross profit 52.6 50.3 47.8 Operating expense: Research and development(1) 22.8 20.6 27.0 Research and development stock based compensation 1.5 2.4 13.6 Selling, general and administrative(1) 9.2 8.9 11.8 Selling, general and administrative stock based compensation 0.7 0.6 2.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.2 0.2 0.2 Settlement costs 4.1 2.9 12.1 In process research and development 1.6 2.7 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 0.0 0.7 27.3 Restructuring costs (reversal) (0.1 ) 0.2 Stock option exchange 13.0 Income (loss) from operations 12.6 11.3 (60.1 ) Interest income, net 1.9 0.7 0.4 Other income, net 0.2 0.3 1.6 Income (loss) before income taxes 14.7 12.3 (58.1 ) Provision for income taxes (0.7 ) 3.2 1.5 Net income (loss) 15.4 % 9.1 % (59.6 )% (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, which is presented separately by respective expense category. Stock based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments we issued, as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions and the effects of the stock option exchange program in 2003. See Consolidated Statements of Operations, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. 49 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 2,670,788 100.0 % $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 270,178 11.3 % Cost of revenue(1) 1,263,477 47.3 1,191,927 49.6 71,550 6.0 Cost of revenue stock based compensation 1,746 0.1 1,367 0.1 379 27.7 Gross profit $ 1,405,565 52.6 % $ 1,207,316 50.3 % $ 198,249 16.4 (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, which is presented separately by respective expense category. Stock based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments we issued, as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions. Net Revenue. Our revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Net revenue is revenue less reductions for rebates and provisions for returns and allowances. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and their respective contributions to the increase in net revenue in 2005 as compared to 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 1,063,142 39.8 % $ 1,121,090 46.7 % $ (57,948 ) (5.2 )% Broadband communications 919,798 34.4 780,383 32.5 139,415 17.9 Mobile and wireless 687,848 25.8 499,137 20.8 188,711 37.8 Net revenue $ 2,670,788 100.0 % $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 270,178 11.3 The 2005 decrease in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from the previously anticipated decline in shipments of our Intel processor based server chipsets, which resulted in a $206.8 million decrease in net revenue for those products, offset by an increase in net revenue for our enterprise Ethernet and controller products. The 2005 increase in net revenue from our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from an increase in net revenue from solutions for broadband modems. The 2005 increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strength in our Bluetooth and mobile multimedia product offerings, partially offset by weakness in our cellular handset and wireless LAN businesses in the first half of 2005. Our enterprise networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors, server chipsets and storage products. Our broadband communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and HD DVD and personal video recording devices. Our mobile and wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and VoIP solutions. 50 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and their respective contributions to the increase in net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to the third quarter of 2005: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 September 30, 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 303,892 37.1 % $ 272,144 39.2 % $ 31,748 11.7 % Broadband communications 249,683 30.4 237,172 34.1 12,511 5.3 Mobile and wireless 267,030 32.5 185,661 26.7 81,369 43.8 Net revenue $ 820,605 100.0 % $ 694,977 100.0 % $ 125,628 18.1 The increase in net revenue from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2005 resulted primarily from an increase in the volume of shipments of our semiconductor products stemming from the rise in demand for our products in each of our major target markets. The increase in net revenue in our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from an increase in net revenue from our enterprise Ethernet products. The increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strength in our Bluetooth and mobile multimedia product offerings. We currently anticipate that total net revenue in the first quarter of 2006 will be approximately $865.0 million to $875.0 million, as compared to $820.6 million in net revenue achieved in the fourth quarter of 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, we expect to see this increase distributed across all three of our major target markets, with the strongest growth expected to come from our broadband communications target market. We recorded rebates to certain customers in the amounts of $220.8 million and $263.6 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. We account for rebates in accordance with FASB Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products), and, accordingly, record reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms included in our various rebate agreements. Historically, reversals of rebate accruals have not been material. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based on the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs and as specific rebate programs contractually end and unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment. However, we do not expect rebates to impact our gross margin as our prices to these customers and corresponding revenue and margins are already net of such rebates. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing the finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, prototyping costs, amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs and provisions for excess or obsolete inventories. Gross profit represents net revenue less the cost of revenue and less stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. The 2005 increase in gross profit resulted primarily from the 11.3% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 50.3% in 2004 to 52.6% in 2005. The primary factors that contributed to this 2.3 percentage point improvement were improvements in product margin due to (i) changes in product mix, (ii) benefits from the favorable foundry pricing we were able to negotiate at the beginning of 2005 and (iii) other product cost savings, particularly in the area of yield improvements. In addition, gross margin increased due to a decrease in provisions for excess and obsolete inventory and warranty costs as compared to 2004. 51 Table of Contents The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets by expense category: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 11,081 $ 12,821 Operating expense 4,033 3,703 $ 15,114 $ 16,524 The following table presents details of the unamortized balance of purchased intangible assets that will be amortized to future cost of revenue and operating expense: Net Purchased Intangibles Assets at Amortizable in December 31, 2005 2006 2007 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 5,423 $ 4,940 $ 483 Operating expense 1,909 1,735 174 $ 7,332 $ 6,675 $ 657 Gross margin has been and will likely continue to be impacted in the future by competitive pricing programs, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, product warranty costs, provisions for excess or obsolete inventories, possible future changes in product mix, and the introduction of products with lower margins, among other factors. We anticipate that our gross margin in the first quarter of 2006 may be flat or decrease slightly compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Our gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS 123R, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, or SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their grant date fair values. The balance of unearned stock based compensation to be included in cost of revenue in the period 2006 through 2009 related to share based awards unvested at December 31, 2005, as previously calculated under the disclosure only requirements of SFAS 123, is approximately $36.5 million. The weighted average period over which the unearned stock based compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately two years. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our cost of revenue will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. We anticipate we will grant additional employee stock options and restricted stock units in the second quarter of 2006 as part of our regular annual equity compensation focal review program. The value of these grants is not included in the amount above, and the impact of these grants cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on the number of share based payments granted as part of the focal review program and the then current fair values. For an additional discussion of the effects of expensing of stock options, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, below. 52 Table of Contents Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development(1) $ 610,059 22.8 % $ 495,075 20.6 % $ 114,984 23.2 % Research and development stock based compensation 40,569 1.5 58,611 2.4 (18,042 ) (30.8 ) Selling, general and administrative(1) 244,926 9.2 212,727 8.9 32,199 15.1 Selling, general and administrative stock based compensation 17,689 0.7 14,709 0.6 2,980 20.3 (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, which is presented separately by respective expense category. Stock based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments we issued, as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expense Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware, prototyping costs, subcontracting costs and facilities expenses. Amounts associated with stock based compensation expense for employees engaged in research and development are shown separately. Research and development expense does not include amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets related to research and development activities. The 2005 increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from an increase of $81.2 million in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses is attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities in 2005, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions, as well as increased cash compensation levels. Based upon past experience, we anticipate that research and development expense will continue to increase over the long term as a result of the growth and diversification of the markets we serve, new product opportunities, changes in our compensation policies and any expansion into new markets and technologies. We anticipate that research and development expense in the first quarter of 2006 will increase from the $168.4 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. We hold more than 1,250 U.S. patents, and we maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses, communications expenses and advertising expenses. Amounts associated with stock based compensation expense for selling, general and administrative employees are shown separately. Selling, general and administrative expense does not include amounts associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets related to selling, general and administrative activities. The 2005 increase in selling, general and administrative expense resulted primarily from an increase of $28.1 million in personnel related expenses. This increase in personnel related expenses is attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities in 2005, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions, as well as increased cash compensation levels. Based upon past experience, we anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense will continue to increase over the long 53 Table of Contents term to support any expansion of our operations through periodic changes in our infrastructure, changes in our compensation policies, acquisition and integration activities, international operations, and current and future litigation. We anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense in the first quarter of 2006 will increase from the $68.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expense Stock Based Compensation Expense. Stock based compensation expense generally represents the amortization of deferred compensation resulting from restricted stock units issued to employees and unvested equity compensation instruments assumed in acquisitions. Deferred compensation is presented as a reduction of shareholders equity and is amortized ratably over the respective vesting periods of the applicable unvested securities, generally four years. During 2005 we recorded approximately $204.9 million of deferred compensation primarily related to the issuance of approximately 5.6 million restricted stock units in connection with our regular annual equity compensation review for employees as well as for new hire grants. This deferred compensation is being amortized ratably over the vesting periods of the underlying restricted stock units, generally 16 quarters. The decrease in research and development stock based compensation expense in 2005 related primarily to a reduction in the amortization of deferred compensation resulting from assumed unvested equity compensation instruments becoming fully vested and the elimination of deferred compensation as a result of the termination of employment of certain employees, partially offset by the amortization of deferred compensation resulting from the issuance of restricted stock units in 2005. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS 123R. The balance of unearned stock based compensation to be included in research and development and selling, general and administrative expense in the period 2006 through 2009 related to share based awards unvested at December 31, 2005, as previously calculated under the disclosure only requirements of SFAS 123, is approximately $464.9 million and $208.6 million, respectively. The weighted average period over which the unearned stock based compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately two years. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our operating expenses will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. We anticipate we will grant additional employee stock options and restricted stock units in the second quarter of 2006 as part of our regular annual equity compensation focal review program. The value of these grants is not included in the amount above, and the impact of these grants cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on the number of share based payments granted as part of the focal review program and the then current fair values. For an additional discussion of the effects of expensing of stock options, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, below. Settlement Costs We recorded $110.0 million in settlement costs in 2005 primarily related to the settlement of securities class action litigation against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. We recorded $68.7 million in settlement costs in 2004. Of that amount $60.0 million was related to the settlement of various litigation matters, and the remaining $8.7 million reflected settlement costs related to a claim arising from an acquisition and certain indemnification costs. For a more detailed discussion of our settled and outstanding litigation, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In Process Research and Development IPR&D totaled $43.5 million and $63.8 million for acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The amounts allocated to IPR&D were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs, as clarified by FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method an Interpretation of FASB 54 Table of Contents Statement No. 2, amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting the above stated criteria were charged to expense as part of the allocation of purchase price. The fair value of the IPR&D for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles and market penetration and growth rates. The IPR&D charges include only the fair value of IPR&D performed as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets. We believe the amounts recorded as IPR&D, as well as developed technology, represent the fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects at the time of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPR&D for our acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2004: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPR&D (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2005 Acquisitions Zeevo Bluetooth wireless audio chipset 85 % 1.0 $ 5.5 22 % $ 6.7 Siliquent 10 GbE server controller 40 1.0 17.3 27 35.0 Athena Tuners and low power Wi Fi 85 0.5 0.9 27 1.8 2004 Acquisitions RAIDCore RAID software stack 60 1.0 1.8 23 2.3 Sand Video Decoder/codec chips 45 1.5 6.4 28 20.5 M Stream Algorithm implemented in DSP chip 30 1.0 1.3 26 3.7 Zyray UMTS baseband co processor 80 1.0 5.6 24 25.9 Alphamosaic Multimedia co processor 50 1.0 11.5 21 11.3 We completed the development projects related to all of our 2004 acquisitions, except for Sand Video. In the case of Sand Video, we reallocated the resources to focus on semiconductor products that we believe are a higher priority. We also completed the development project related to the Zeevo acquisition. All other 2005 development projects are still in process. Except for the Sand Video project, actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPR&D projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. As of the respective acquisition dates of the 2005 and 2004 acquisitions, certain ongoing development projects were in process. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 55 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The following table presents impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets for 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease % Change (In thousands, except percentages) Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets $ 500 0.0% $ 18,000 0.7% $ (17,500 ) (97.2 )% We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142, in October 2005 and 2004. Upon completion of the 2005 and 2004 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair values of our four reporting units, determined and identified in accordance with SFAS 142, exceeded their respective carrying values. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as verification of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete four year financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes and consistent with those distributed to our Board of Directors. Cash flows beyond the four year discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating the present value techniques discussed in FASB Concepts Statement 7, Using Cash Flow Information and Present Value in Accounting Measurements, or Concepts Statement 7. Specifically, the income approach valuations included reporting unit cash flow discount rates ranging from 13% to 17%, and terminal value growth rates ranging from 0% to 10%%. Publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of our company was also considered in assessing the reasonableness of the cumulative fair values of our reporting units estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. In November 2005 we acquired an issued U.S. patent, with various foreign counterparts, related to integrated circuit package testing for $0.5 million. In January 2004 we acquired approximately 80 patents and patent applications related to the read channel and hard disk controller market for $18.0 million. The immediate purpose for acquiring these patent portfolios was to assist us in the defense and settlement of then ongoing and future intellectual property litigation. As a result, we were unable to estimate any future cash flows from the patents. We also did not have any plans to resell the patents to a third party. Due to our intended use for these assets, we concluded that indicators of impairment existed upon acquisition of the patents because the carrying value of the patents might not be recoverable. Upon determining that indicators of impairment existed, we performed recoverability tests in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, or SFAS 144. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of long lived assets should include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with, and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The only cash flows expected to arise as a direct result of the use of the patents are the cash savings expected to result from reduced but undeterminable litigation expenses over the next several years. Due to the unpredictable nature of legal disputes, it is not possible to reasonably: (i) determine if our strategy with respect to the patents will be successful, (ii) forecast litigation expenses that would have been incurred if the patent portfolio was not acquired, or (iii) forecast cash flows generated as a result of acquiring the patents. As a result, no reasonable analysis could be prepared to support future cash flows associated with the patents. Accordingly, pursuant to SFAS 144 the patents were determined to be fully impaired at their respective dates of acquisition. The impairment charge for the patent portfolio was classified as an impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the consolidated statements of operations in 2004. 56 Table of Contents See Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Restructuring Costs For a discussion of activity and liability balances related to our past restructuring plans, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net, for 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 51,207 1.9 % $ 15,010 0.7 % $ 36,197 241.2 % Other income, net 3,465 0.2 7,317 0.3 (3,852 ) (52.6 ) Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The increase in interest income, net, was the result of an overall increase in our cash and marketable securities balances and an increase in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.276 billion at December 31, 2004 to $1.876 billion at December 31, 2005. The weighted average interest rates earned for 2005 and 2004 were 3.48% and 1.73%, respectively. Other income, net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. We recognized gains from sales of strategic investments in the amounts of $1.2 million and $5.2 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the provision for income taxes for 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (20,220 ) (0.7 )% $ 75,607 3.2 % $ (95,827 ) (126.7 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2005 and 2004. During 2005 we recorded deductible settlement costs of $110.0 million, which eliminated our 2005 federal taxable income before tax deductions from employee stock options, and we recorded no tax benefits for our resulting domestic tax losses. Other differences between our effective tax rates for 2005 and 2004 resulted primarily from a favorable geographic mix of income and reduced foreign tax rates in 2005. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $28.3 million and $21.3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to foreign subsidiaries primarily due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment of taxes related to the prior periods. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. SFAS 109 further states that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of its loss carryback 57 Table of Contents opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we recorded net deferred tax assets of $1.4 million in accordance with SFAS 109. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 790,515 49.1 % Cost of revenue(1) 1,191,927 49.6 821,794 51.1 370,133 45.0 Cost of revenue stock based compensation 1,367 0.1 17,982 1.1 (16,615 ) (92.4 ) Gross profit $ 1,207,316 50.3 % $ 770,319 47.8 % $ 436,997 56.7 (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, which is presented separately by respective expense category. Stock based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments we issued, as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions and the effects of the stock option exchange program in 2003. Net Revenue. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and their respective contributions to the increase in net revenue in 2004 as compared to 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Enterprise networking $ 1,121,090 46.7 % $ 917,876 57.0 % $ 203,214 22.1 % Broadband communications 780,383 32.5 373,562 23.2 406,821 108.9 Mobile and wireless 499,137 20.8 318,657 19.8 180,480 56.6 Net revenue $ 2,400,610 100.0 % $ 1,610,095 100.0 % $ 790,515 49.1 The growth in net revenue resulted primarily from an increase in the volume of shipments of our semiconductor products stemming from the rise in demand for our products in each of our major target markets in 2004, except for Intel processor based server chipsets, included in enterprise networking, which declined. The previously anticipated decline in shipments of our Intel processor based server chipsets resulted in a $46.9 million decrease in net revenue for those products in 2004 as compared with 2003. We recorded rebates to certain customers in the amounts of $263.6 million and $165.2 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The 2004 increase in gross profit resulted primarily from the 49.1% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 47.8% in 2003 to 50.3% in 2004. The primary factors that contributed to this 2.5 percentage point improvement in gross margin were (i) a 1.5 percentage point improvement in product margin primarily due to changes in product mix, and (ii) decreases in stock option exchange expense, the amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock based compensation expense, which improved gross margin by 0.7, 0.6 and 0.3 percentage points, respectively, offset in part by an increase in the provision for excess and obsolete inventory of 0.4 percentage points. 58 Table of Contents In 2004 we increased our provision for excess and obsolete inventory as compared to 2003 as a result of an increase in gross inventory. The primary factors that resulted in increased inventory were the expansion of inventory in response to higher levels of purchase orders received from our customers, shorter lead times for certain of our customers, and the buildup of buffer inventory based upon our forecast of future demand for certain key products. The 2004 decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to stock option exchange expense of approximately $11.5 million recorded in 2003, as well as a reduction in the number of assumed unvested options and shares of restricted stock being amortized and the elimination of deferred compensation as a result of the termination of employment of certain employees. For a further discussion, see Stock Option Exchange Expense below. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development(1) $ 495,075 20.6 % $ 434,018 27.0 % $ 61,057 14.1 % Research and development stock based compensation 58,611 2.4 219,337 13.6 (160,726 ) (73.3 ) Selling, general and administrative(1) 212,727 8.9 190,138 11.8 22,589 11.9 Selling, general and administrative stock based compensation 14,709 0.6 44,623 2.7 (29,914 ) (67.0 ) (1) Excludes stock based compensation expense, which is presented separately by respective expense category. Stock based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments we issued, as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expense Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Research and Development Expense The 2004 increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from a $41.2 million increase in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses was primarily due to a 22.3% increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities in 2004, through acquisitions and hiring. In addition, there were increases in outsourced engineering, facilities and engineering design tool expenses in 2004, offset in part by lower depreciation expense on computer software and equipment. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The 2004 increase in selling, general and administrative expense in absolute dollars resulted primarily from a $22.5 million increase in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses was primarily due to a 22.1% increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities in 2004, through acquisitions and hiring. In addition, there were increases in expenses for travel and entertainment, marketing and accounting, which were offset by decreases in legal expense. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expense Stock Based Compensation Expense The 2004 decrease in stock based compensation expense related primarily to a reduction in the number of assumed unvested options and shares of restricted stock being amortized and the elimination of deferred compensation as a result of the termination of employment of certain employees. 59 Table of Contents Settlement Costs We recorded $68.7 million in settlement costs in 2004. Of this amount, $60.0 million was related to the settlement of various litigation matters, and the remaining $8.7 million reflected settlement costs related to a claim arising from an acquisition and certain indemnification costs. In May 2003 we completed a management transition at our ServerWorks Corporation subsidiary and entered into a settlement agreement resolving various issues and disputes raised by certain employees and former securities holders of ServerWorks, including issues and disputes with three departing employees, relating to agreements entered into when we acquired ServerWorks in January 2001. In connection with the settlement, we incurred approximately $25.2 million in cash payments and expenses and recorded a one time non cash charge of approximately $88.1 million in May 2003. This non cash charge reflected the acceleration from future periods of stock based compensation expense, most of which was previously recorded as deferred compensation upon the acquisition of ServerWorks (and based upon stock market valuations at the time of the acquisition). In August 2003 we agreed with Intel Corporation to settle all litigation between the companies as well as litigation involving our respective affiliates. In connection with the settlement agreement, we paid Intel $60.0 million in 2003. We recorded an additional $21.2 million in settlement costs in 2003 in connection with the settlement of other litigation and third party claims. In Process Research and Development IPR&D totaled $63.8 million for acquisitions completed in 2004. No comparable amount of IPR&D was recorded in 2003. For a description of the 2004 IPR&D projects, including the valuation techniques used and significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations, as well as an update on the status of such projects as of December 31, 2005, see the discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, above. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS 142, in October 2004 and 2003. There was no impairment recorded for goodwill in 2004, however we did record an $18.0 million impairment of other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS 144. For the description of the annual impairment assessment as well as the impairment of other intangible assets in 2004, see the comparable discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, above. In 2003 we recorded an impairment for goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $439.6 million. In May 2003 we determined that indicators of impairment existed for two of our reporting units, ServerWorks and mobile communications, and an additional impairment assessment was performed at that time. Based on that assessment, we recorded a charge of $438.6 million in June 2003 to write down the value of goodwill associated with the affected reporting units. Of this charge, $414.5 million represented the balance of goodwill related to the ServerWorks reporting unit and $24.1 million represented the balance of goodwill related to the mobile communications reporting unit. For a further discussion of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, including the primary factors that contributed to the impairment assessment, see Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Option Exchange Expense In April 2003 we commenced an offering to our employees to voluntarily exchange certain vested and unvested stock options. Under the program, employees holding options to purchase our Class A or Class B common stock were given the opportunity to exchange certain of their existing options, with exercise prices at or above $23.58 per share. In connection with the offering, we recorded stock option exchange expenses for 60 Table of Contents employees engaged in research and development and selling, general and administrative activities in the amounts of $164.8 million and $44.5 million, respectively in 2003. No comparable charges were incurred in 2004. For further discussion of stock option exchange expense, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net, for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 15,010 0.7 % $ 6,828 0.4 % $ 8,182 119.8 % Other income, net 7,317 0.3 26,053 1.6 (18,736 ) (71.9 ) Interest Income, Net. The increase in 2004 was primarily the result of an overall increase in our cash and marketable securities balances and an increase in market interest rates. Other Income, Net. We recognized gains from strategic investments in the amounts of $5.2 million and $24.4 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2003 gain on investment was incurred on an investment that was previously written down by $24.1 million in September 2002, representing an other than temporary decline in the value of that investment at the time. The 2003 gain was offset in part by $2.3 million in losses, representing other than temporary declines in the value of other strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the provision for income taxes for 2004 and 2003: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 75,607 3.2 % $ 25,127 1.5 % $ 50,480 200.9 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2004 and 2003. The difference between our effective tax rate for 2004 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of nondeductible IPR&D and foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal statutory rate. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $21.3 million related to foreign subsidiaries due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment of taxes related to such periods. The difference between our effective tax rate for 2003 and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from the effects of impairment of goodwill, foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal statutory rate, as well as the effects of 2003 domestic losses recorded without tax benefit. As a result of our cumulative losses and the full utilization of our loss carrybacks, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in 2004 and 2003. Subsequent Events Increase in Share Repurchase Program On January 25, 2006 our Board of Directors approved an amendment to the share repurchase program authorized in February 2005. The amendment extends the program through January 26, 2007 and authorizes the repurchase of additional shares of the our Class A common stock having a total market value of up to $500 million from time to time during the period beginning January 26, 2006 and ending January 26, 2007. 61 Table of Contents Stock Split On January 25, 2006 our Board of Directors approved a three for two split of our common stock, which will be effected in the form of a stock dividend. Holders of record of our Class A and Class B common stock as of the close of business on February 6, 2006 ( Record Date) will receive one additional share of Class A or Class B common stock, as applicable, for every two shares of such class held on the Record Date. The additional Class A and Class B shares will be distributed on or about February 21, 2006. Cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares. Share and per share amounts in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have not been restated to reflect this pending stock split. Pending Acquisition In January 2006 we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Sandburst Corporation, a privately held fabless semiconductor company specializing in the design and development of scalable packet switching and routing systems on a chip (SoCs) that are deployed in enterprise core and metropolitan Ethernet networks. We expect to pay total consideration of approximately $80 million in connection with the acquisition. Of such consideration, $75 million will be paid in cash upon closing of the acquisition in exchange for all outstanding shares of capital stock and vested stock options of Sandburst. A portion of the cash consideration will be placed in escrow pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement. Broadcom will also assume all unvested employee stock options of Sandburst, which will entitle the holders to receive, upon vesting, up to approximately 100,000 shares of Broadcom Class A common stock, having a total value of approximately $5 million based upon the terms of the acquisition agreement. The closing, which is expected to occur during the first quarter of 2006, remains subject to customary closing conditions. We may record a one time charge for purchased in process research and development expenses related to the acquisition in the first quarter of 2006. The amount of that charge, if any, has not yet been determined. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004 the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which is a revision of SFAS 123. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their grant date fair values and does not allow the previously permitted disclosure only method as an alternative to financial statement recognition. SFAS 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, or APB 25, and related interpretations and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS 123R. We plan to use the modified prospective method of recognition of compensation expense related to share based payments. The adoption of the SFAS 123R fair value method will have a significant adverse impact on our reported results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position. The balance of unearned stock based compensation to be included in the period 2006 through 2009 related to share based awards unvested at December 31, 2005, as previously calculated under the disclosure only requirements of SFAS 123, is approximately $710.0 million. The weighted average period over which the unearned stock based compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately two years. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. We anticipate we will grant additional employee stock options and restricted stock units in the second quarter of 2006 as part of our regular annual equity compensation focal review program. The fair value of these grants is not included in the amount above, as the impact of these grants cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on the number of share based payments granted as part of the focal review program and the then current fair values. Had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the magnitude of the impact of that standard on our results of operations would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black Scholes option pricing model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per share in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS 123R also requires the benefits of 62 Table of Contents tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement may reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after its adoption. While we cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future, the amount of operating cash flows recognized in 2004 related to such excess tax deductions was $81.8 million. No comparable amounts were recorded in 2005 or 2003. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital and cash and marketable securities: December 31, December 31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) (In thousands) Working capital $ 1,741,254 $ 1,087,342 $ 653,912 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,437,276 $ 858,592 $ 578,684 Short term marketable securities(1) 295,402 324,041 (28,639 ) Long term marketable securities 142,843 92,918 49,925 $ 1,875,521 $ 1,275,551 $ 599,970 (1) Included in working capital. Our working capital increased in 2005 primarily related to cash provided by operations and cash proceeds received from issuances of common stock in connection with the exercise of employee stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, offset in part by cash paid to settle our securities class action litigation, the purchase of long term marketable securities and property and equipment, acquisitions, and repurchases of our Class A common stock. Cash Provided and Used in 2005 and 2004. Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.437 billion at December 31, 2005 from $858.6 million at December 31, 2004 as a result of cash provided by operating and financing activities, offset in part by cash used in investing activities. In 2005 our operating activities provided $446.7 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $411.7 million in net income and $171.3 million in net non cash operating expenses, offset in part by net cash used of $136.3 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income include depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPR&D, impairment of intangible assets and gains on strategic investments. In 2004 our operating activities provided $501.8 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $218.7 million in net income and $324.7 million in net non cash operating expenses, offset in part by net cash used of $41.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income include depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPR&D, impairment of intangible assets, tax benefit from stock plans and gains on strategic investments. Accounts receivable increased $102.3 million from $205.1 million in 2004 to $307.4 million in 2005. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily the result of the $281.2 million increase in net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2005 to $820.6 million, as compared with $539.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If, in the longer term, our revenue continues to increase as it has in the most recent past, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers. Inventories increased $66.3 million, from $128.3 million in 2004 to $194.6 million in 2005, primarily in response to higher levels of purchase orders received from our customers and the buildup of buffer inventories based upon our forecast of future demand for certain key products. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined based on the level of purchase orders received as well as the stage at which our 63 Table of Contents products are in their respective product life cycles and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing activities used cash of $173.1 million in 2005, which was primarily the result of $111.5 million net cash paid in acquisitions, the purchase of $41.8 million of capital equipment to support our operations, $21.3 million used in the net purchase of marketable securities and the purchase of $0.5 million of strategic investments, offset by $1.9 million in net proceeds received from the sale of strategic investments. Investing activities used cash of $456.0 million in 2004, which was primarily the result of $333.3 million used in the net purchase of marketable securities, $74.8 million net cash paid in acquisitions, the purchase of $49.9 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the purchase of $3.2 million of strategic investments, offset by $5.2 million in net proceeds received from the sale of strategic investments. Our financing activities provided $305.1 million in cash in 2005, which was primarily the result of $458.1 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, offset in part by $153.8 million in repurchases of our Class A common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program implemented in February 2005 and $2.5 million for the repayment of debt assumed in connection with an acquisition. Our financing activities provided $254.1 million in cash in 2004, which was primarily the result of $253.3 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. In January 2006, we amended our share repurchase program to authorize repurchases of Class A common stock having an aggregate market value of up to $500 million from time to time during the period beginning January 26, 2006 and ending January 26, 2007, depending on market conditions and other factors. Due to the increase in the price of our Class A common stock, a greater number of stock options were exercised by employees, and we received more proceeds from the exercise of stock options, in 2005 than in 2004. The timing and number of stock option exercises and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Moreover, it is now our practice to issue a combination of restricted stock units and stock options to employees, which will reduce future growth in the number of stock options available for exercise. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash as we determined to allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issuable upon vesting of restricted stock units during 2005 and 2006 withheld to satisfy withholding taxes and to make corresponding cash payments to the appropriate tax authorities on each employees behalf. In January 2006 we received approximately $236.9 million from the exercise of stock options. The effects of those exercises are not included in our financial position as of December 31, 2005. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2005: Payment Obligations by Year There 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 after Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 95,862 $ 88,986 $ 64,601 $ 41,445 $ 29,733 $ 132,670 $ 453,297 Inventory and related purchase obligations 297,468 612 298,080 Other purchase obligations 38,303 2,135 40,438 Restructuring liabilities 8,083 3,663 1,790 1,790 895 16,221 Accrued settlement payments 2,047 2,000 2,000 6,047 Total $ 441,763 $ 97,396 $ 68,391 $ 43,235 $ 30,628 $ 132,670 $ 814,083 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2017. In December 2004 we entered into a lease 64 Table of Contents agreement under which our corporate headquarters will move from its present location to new facilities in Irvine, California with an aggregate of approximately 0.7 million square feet. The lease term is for a period of ten years and two months beginning after the completion of the first two buildings and related tenant improvements, which is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2007. The aggregate rent for the term of the lease, approximately $183.0 million, is included in the table above. Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. Other purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, and other purchase commitments made in the ordinary course of business. Our restructuring liabilities represent estimated future lease and operating costs from restructured facilities, less offsetting sublease income, if any. These costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Settlement payments represent payments to be made in connection with certain settlement and license agreements entered into in 2004 and 2003. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the exercise of employee stock options and the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments and repurchases of our Class A common stock for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. We could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We have in effect a universal shelf registration statement on SEC Form S 3 that allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, shares of our Class A common stock, shares of preferred stock or debt securities, or any combination of such securities, for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. However, we have not issued nor do we have immediate plans to issue securities under the universal shelf registration statement. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 65 Table of Contents the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; volume price discounts and customer rebates; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; changes in our compensation policies; issuance of restricted stock units and the related payments in cash for withholding taxes due from employees during 2006 and possibly during future years; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; expenses related to our restructuring plans; the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan; and general economic conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets, including the effects of recent international conflicts and related uncertainties. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. 66 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. We do not use derivative financial instruments. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of December 31, 2005 the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our marketable securities, consisting of U.S. Treasury and agency obligations, commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, time deposits, foreign notes and certificates of deposits, are generally classified as held to maturity and are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. In addition, in the past certain of our short term marketable securities were classified as available for sale and were stated at fair value, which was equal to cost due to the short term maturity of these securities. In the event that there were to be a difference between fair value and cost in any of our available for sale securities, unrealized gains and losses on these investments would be reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Our investment policy for marketable securities requires that all securities mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than 18 months. As of December 31, 2005 the carrying value and fair value of these securities were approximately $438.2 million and $435.7 million, respectively. The fair value of our marketable securities fluctuates based on changes in market conditions and interest rates; however, given the short term maturities, we do not believe these instruments are subject to significant market or interest rate risk. The carrying value, maturity and estimated fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were as follows: Carrying Fair Value Maturity Value December 31, December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2005 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 835,598 $ 835,598 $ $ $ 835,202 Weighted average interest rate 4.38 % 4.38 % Marketable securities $ 438,245 $ 295,402 $ 103,985 $ 38,858 $ 435,702 Weighted average interest rate 3.77 % 3.62 % 3.94 % 4.45 % Carrying Fair Value Maturity Value December 31, December 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 356,845 $ 356,845 $ $ $ 356,831 Weighted average interest rate 2.33 % 2.33 % Marketable securities $ 416,959 $ 324,041 $ 69,717 $ 23,201 $ 415,757 Weighted average interest rate 2.40 % 2.30 % 2.64 % 3.12 % Our strategic equity investments are generally classified as available for sale and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for our publicly traded investments. We have also invested in privately held companies, the majority of which can still be considered to be in the start up or development stage. We make investments in key business partners and other industry participants to establish strategic relationships, expand existing relationships, and achieve a return on our investment. These investments are inherently risky, as the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Likewise, the development projects of these companies may not be successful. In 67 Table of Contents addition, early stage companies often fail for various other reasons. Consequently, we could lose our entire investment in these companies. As of December 31, 2005, the carrying and fair value of our strategic investments was approximately $5.0 million. 
 
