Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. As a reminder, you should not rely on financial information included in the reports on Form 10 K, Form 10 Q and Form 8 K previously filed by Broadcom, the related opinions of our independent registered public accounting firm, or earnings press releases and similar communications issued by us, for periods ended on or before March 31, 2006, all of which have been superseded in their entirety by the information contained in our amended Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our amended Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q/A for the three months ended March 31, 2006, each filed January 23, 2007. For a discussion of the restated financial information contained in the amended Reports, see Equity Award Review, below. Overview Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. Broadcom provides the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. Our diverse product portfolio includes solutions for digital cable, satellite and Internet Protocol (IP) set top boxes and media servers; high definition television (HDTV); high definition DVD players and personal video recording (PVR) devices; cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; SystemI/O server solutions; broadband network and security processors; wireless and personal area networking; cellular communications; global positioning system (GPS) applications; mobile multimedia and applications processors; mobile power management; and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems. Net Revenue. Our net revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. We derive the remainder of our net revenue predominantly from royalty revenue from a patent license agreement, software licenses, development agreements, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our sales occurs through distributors. We sell our products to leading manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment in each of our target markets. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into equipment used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. The following table presents details of our net revenue: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Sales of semiconductor products 98.2 % 99.4 % 99.1 % Royalties and other 1.8 0.6 0.9 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Sales made through direct sales force 85.0 % 85.1 % 84.4 % Sales made through distributors 15.0 14.9 15.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 48 Table of Contents The demand for our products has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; seasonality in the demand for consumer oriented products into which certain of our products are incorporated; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our products and technologies in our target markets; and the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. For these and other reasons, our net revenue and results of operations in 2007 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the increasing volume of our products that are incorporated into consumer products, sales of which are typically subject to greater seasonality and greater volume fluctuations than non consumer OEM products. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Historically we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our predicted future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product and negatively impact our cash flow. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Motorola 11.2 % 15.4 % 15.5 % Cisco(1) * 11.2 12.4 Five largest customers as a group 39.7 46.5 48.5 * Less than 10% of net revenue. (1) Includes sales to Scientific Atlanta, which was acquired by Cisco in February 2006, for all periods presented. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2008 and for the foreseeable future. 49 Table of Contents Net revenue derived from all independent customers located outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States even though such subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors are located outside of the United States, as a percentage of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Asia (primarily in Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan) 26.5 % 19.5 % 17.8 % Europe (primarily in France, the United Kingdom and Finland) 8.5 8.4 7.6 Other 0.5 0.3 0.4 35.5 % 28.2 % 25.8 % Net revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Asia (primarily in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and Singapore) 81.2 % 79.2 % 75.2 % Europe (primarily in Hungary, Germany and Sweden) 2.9 3.3 3.6 Other 3.3 4.0 5.7 87.4 % 86.5 % 84.5 % We have recently entered into arrangements that include multiple deliverables, such as the sale of semiconductor products and related data services. Under these arrangements, the services may be provided without having a separate fair value under EITF 00 21. In that event, we will only recognize a portion of the total revenue we receive from the customer during a quarter, and will recognize the remaining revenue on a ratable basis over the expected life of the service being provided. As we enter into future multiple element arrangements in which the fair value of each deliverable is not known, the portion of revenue we recognize on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, which could cause even greater fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Gross Margin. Our gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of net revenue, has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; licensing and royalty revenue; the effects of competition; the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as wafer pricing and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and overhead costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; product warranty costs; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories; amortization of purchased intangible assets; and stock based compensation expense. Net Income (Loss). Our net income (loss) has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: stock based compensation expense; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; 50 Table of Contents licensing and royalty revenue; in process research and development, or IPRD; litigation costs; settlement costs; the loss of interest income resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock; amortization of purchased intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries; gain (loss) on strategic investments; and restructuring costs or reversals thereof. In 2007 our net income was $213.3 million (including royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million in the fourth quarter) as compared to $379.0 million in 2006, a difference of $165.7 million. Although our net revenue increased by $108.6 million or 3.0% to $3.776 billion with gross margin of 51.5%, our profitability decreased as a direct result of an increase in operating expenses of $230.7 million, primarily research and development costs. Research and development costs have and will continue to increase in 2008 as we increase the number of employees engaged in research and development activities and ready a number of design wins to go into production. Research and development costs will also increase over the long term as a result of growth in, and the diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. In 2007, 2006 and 2005 we completed nine acquisitions for original total equity consideration of $15.3 million and cash consideration of $430.4 million. In 2007 we acquired LVL7 Systems, Inc., a privately held developer of production ready networking software that enables networking original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers to reduce development expenses and compress development timelines; Octalica, Inc., a privately held fabless semiconductor company that specializes in the design and development of networking technologies based on the MoCA standard, which enables distribution of high quality multimedia content throughout the home over existing coaxial cable; and Global Locate, Inc., a privately held, fabless provider of industry leading global positioning system and assisted GPS semiconductor products and software. In 2006 we acquired Sandburst Corporation, a fabless semiconductor company specializing in the design and development of packet switching and routing systems on a chip that are deployed in enterprise core and metropolitan Ethernet networks, and Encentrus Systems, Inc., a developer of media center technology. In 2005 we acquired Alliant Networks, Inc., a developer of WLAN embedded software; Zeevo, Inc., a developer of Bluetooth headset chipsets; Siliquent Technologies Inc., a developer of 10 Gigabit Ethernet server controllers; and Athena Semiconductors, Inc., a developer of mobile digital television tuner and low power Wi Fi technology. 51 Table of Contents Because each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase transaction, the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to these acquisitions. Business Enterprise Segments. We operate in one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, or SFAS 131, establishes standards for the way public business enterprises report information about operating segments in annual consolidated financial statements and requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in interim financial reports. SFAS 131 also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. Although we had four operating segments at December 31, 2007, under the aggregation criteria set forth in SFAS 131 we operate in only one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. Under SFAS 131, two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single operating segment for financial reporting purposes if aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS 131, if the segments have similar economic characteristics, and if the segments are similar in each of the following areas: the nature of products and services; the nature of the production processes; the type or class of customer for their products and services; and the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services. We meet each of the aggregation criteria for the following reasons: the sale of integrated circuits is the only material source of revenue for each of our four operating segments, other than royalty revenue in one of our operating segments in the fourth quarter of 2007; the integrated circuits sold by each of our operating segments use the same standard CMOS manufacturing processes; the integrated circuits marketed by each of our operating segments are sold to one type of customer: manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment, which incorporate our integrated circuits into their electronic products; and all of our integrated circuits are sold through a centralized sales force and common wholesale distributors. All of our operating segments share similar economic characteristics as they have a similar long term business model, operate at gross margins similar to our consolidated gross margin, and have similar research and development expenses and similar selling, general and administrative expenses. The causes for variation among our operating segments are the same and include factors such as (i) life cycle and price and cost fluctuations, (ii) number of competitors, (iii) product differentiation and (iv) size of market opportunity. Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required are similar for each operating segment. Finally, even though we periodically reorganize our operating segments based upon changes in customers, end markets or products, acquisitions, long term growth strategies, and the experience and bandwidth of the senior executives in charge, the common financial goals for each operating segment remain constant. Because we meet each of the criteria set forth in SFAS 131 and our four operating segments as of December 31, 2007 share similar economic characteristics, we have aggregated our results of operations into one reportable operating segment. Equity Award Review In January 2007 we reported the results of a voluntary review of our equity award practices. The voluntary review, which commenced in May 2006 and covered all grants of options and other equity awards made since our initial public offering in April 1998, was directed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Based on the results of the equity award review, the Audit Committee concluded that, pursuant to APB 25 and related interpretations, the accounting measurement dates for most of the stock option grants awarded between June 1998 and May 2003, covering options to purchase 232.9 million shares of our Class A or Class B common stock, 52 Table of Contents differed from the measurement dates previously used for such awards. As a result, revised measurement dates were applied to the affected option grants and Broadcom recorded a total of $2.259 billion in additional stock based compensation expense for the years 1998 through 2005. After related tax adjustments of $38.7 million, the restatement resulted in total net adjustments of $2.220 billion for the years 1998 through 2005. This amount was net of forfeitures related to employee terminations. The additional stock based compensation expense was amortized over the service period relating to each option, typically four years, with approximately 95% of the total expense recorded in years prior to 2004. In addition, $17.2 million of net adjustments was recorded in connection with our equity award review in the three months ended March 31, 2006. None of the grants requiring measurement date adjustment was made to our co founders or to any current or former member of our Board of Directors. As a consequence of these adjustments, our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for the three years ended December 31, 2005 and our consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet data for the five years ended December 31, 2005 were restated. We also restated the stock based compensation expense footnote information calculated under SFAS 123 and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, under the disclosure only alternatives of those pronouncements for the years 2003 through 2005. The restated information was contained in our Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed on January 23, 2007. The adjustments did not affect Broadcoms previously reported revenue, cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities balances in any of the restated periods. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances and uncertain tax positions, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are either (i) critical accounting policies that require us to make significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements or (ii) other key accounting policies that generally do not require us to make estimates or judgments but may be difficult or subjective: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when the following fundamental criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue until all customer acceptance requirements have been met and no significant obligations remain, when applicable. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents and the completion of any customer acceptance requirements, when applicable, are used to verify product delivery or that services have been rendered. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. 53 Table of Contents For a limited number of arrangements that include multiple deliverables, such as sales of semiconductor products and services, we allocate revenue based on the relative fair values of the individual components. If there is no established fair value for an undelivered element, the arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of accounting, resulting in a deferral of revenue and costs for the delivered element until the undelivered element has been fulfilled. In the case that the undelivered element is a service, the revenue and costs applicable to both the delivered and undelivered elements are recorded ratably over the respective service period. If the undelivered element is essential to the functionality of the delivered element, no revenue or costs are recognized until the undelivered element is delivered. A portion of our sales are made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. Product revenue on sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Historically we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us periodic data regarding the product, price, quantity, and the end customer when products are shipped to their customer as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our royalty revenue we rely on data provided by our customers. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our revenue, gross profit and net income. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our revenue, gross profit and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions to revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory and Warranty Reserves. We establish inventory reserves for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory reserves could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from 54 Table of Contents our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our gross profit and gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS 123R, which requires all share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. Under this standard, the fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. The Black Scholes model meets the requirements of SFAS 123R but the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of no dividend payouts. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. Stock based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements in 2006 and thereafter is based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest. We will evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Had we adopted SFAS 123R in 2005, the magnitude of the impact of that standard on our results of operations would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black Scholes option pricing model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per share in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization, and the amount assigned to in process research and development is expensed immediately. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) another significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In the process of our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and 55 Table of Contents estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction to income tax expense in the period of such realization. In July 2006 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN 48, which requires income tax positions to meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold should be recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold should be derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. Prior to 2007 we recorded estimated income tax liabilities to the extent they were probable and could be reasonably estimated. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. From time to time, we are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement charges. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact gross profit and gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a charge equal to at least the minimum estimated liability for a loss contingency when both of the following conditions are met: (i) information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and (ii) the range of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, the actual liability in any such disputes or litigation may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional costs. 56 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005(1) Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 48.5 49.0 47.5 Gross profit 51.5 51.0 52.5 Operating expense: Research and development 35.7 30.5 25.5 Selling, general and administrative 13.0 13.7 10.3 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.0 0.1 0.2 In process research and development 0.4 0.1 1.6 Impairment of other intangible assets 0.1 Settlement costs 4.1 Restructuring reversal (0.1 ) Income from operations 2.3 6.6 10.9 Interest income, net 3.4 3.3 1.9 Other income, net 0.1 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 5.8 10.0 12.9 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.2 (0.3 ) (0.8 ) Net income 5.6 % 10.3 % 13.7 % The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005(1) Cost of revenue 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.2 % Research and development 9.4 8.4 2.6 Selling, general and administrative 3.7 3.7 1.1 (1) The amounts included in 2007 and 2006 reflect the adoption of SFAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006. For a discussion of impact of SFAS 123 on 2005, see Notes 1 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 3,776,395 (2) 100.0 % $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 108,577 3.0 % Cost of revenue(1) 1,832,178 48.5 1,795,565 49.0 36,613 2.0 Gross profit $ 1,944,217 (2) 51.5 % $ 1,872,253 51.0 % $ 71,964 3.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. (2) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Net Revenue. Our revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Our broadband communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our mobile and wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our enterprise networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Net revenue is revenue less reductions for rebates and provisions for returns and allowances. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2007 as compared to 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 1,412,293 37.4 % $ 1,384,969 37.8 % $ 27,324 2.0 % Mobile and wireless 1,224,434 (1) 32.4 1,100,911 30.0 123,523 (1) 11.2 Enterprise networking 1,139,668 30.2 1,181,938 32.2 (42,270 ) (3.6 ) Net revenue $ 3,776,395 (1) 100.0 % $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 108,577 3.0 (1) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The 2007 increase in net revenue in our broadband communications target market resulted from an increase in net revenue for our products for digital TVs, offset by a decrease in net revenue from our products for digital cable set top boxes. The 2007 increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Bluetooth and wireless LAN product offerings, offset in part by a decrease in demand for our mobile multimedia and cellular product offerings. In addition, fourth quarter 2007 net revenue in our mobile and wireless target market included royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The 2007 decrease in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from a decrease in net revenue from our controller products, offset in part by an increase in net revenue attributable to our Ethernet switch products. 58 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contribution to net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2007 as compared to the third quarter of 2007: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2007 2007 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 353,832 34.5 % $ 361,171 38.0 % $ (7,339 ) (2.0 )% Mobile and wireless 381,112 (1) 37.1 302,892 31.9 78,220 (1) 25.8 Enterprise networking 292,091 28.4 285,896 30.1 6,195 2.2 Net revenue $ 1,027,035 (1) 100.0 % $ 949,959 100.0 % $ 77,076 8.1 (1) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The decrease in net revenue in our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from a decrease in net revenue for our products for direct broadcast satellite set top boxes, offset in part by an increase in net revenue from our products for digital cable set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strong growth driven by new products and customer ramps for our Bluetooth solutions, as well as royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $222.3 million and $251.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We account for rebates in accordance with EITF Issue No. 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products), and, accordingly, at the time of the sale we accrue 100% of the potential rebate as a reduction to revenue and do not apply a breakage factor. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms included in our various rebate agreements. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. We reversed accrued rebates in the amount of $22.4 million and $7.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We currently anticipate that total net revenue in the first quarter of 2008 will be approximately $975.0 million to $1.005 billion, as compared to $1.027 billion achieved in the fourth quarter of 2007, in each case including royalty revenue at similar levels as reported in the fourth quarter of 2007 from a patent licensing agreement entered into in July 2007. This decrease is primarily the result of the seasonal decline in revenue in our consumer oriented businesses. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. The 2007 increase in absolute dollars of gross profit resulted primarily from the 3.0% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 51.0% in 2006 to 51.5% in 2007. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in gross margin were: (i) an increase in product margin due to a decrease in product costs, (ii) a shift in product mix, (iii) royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million, and (iv) an increase in the reversal of rebates in the amount of $15.3 million related to unclaimed rebates. For a discussion of stock based compensation included in cost of revenue, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. Gross margin has been and will likely continue to be impacted by our product mix and volume of product sales, including sales to high volume customers, royalty revenue, competitive pricing programs, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, competitive pricing requirements, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, the position of our products in their respective life cycles, and 59 Table of Contents the introduction of products with lower margins, among other factors. We anticipate that our gross margin in the first quarter of 2008 will slightly decrease as compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 as we continue to ramp a number of new products to new and existing customers. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development(1) $ 1,348,508 35.7 % $ 1,117,014 30.5 % $ 231,494 20.7 % Selling, general and administrative(1) 492,737 13.0 504,012 13.7 (11,275 ) (2.2 ) (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Research and development expense also includes costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware, mask and prototyping costs, subcontracting costs and facilities expenses. The 2007 increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from an increase of $131.0 million in personnel related expenses and an increase of $46.6 million in stock based compensation expense. These increases are primarily attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities since the end of 2006, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions. Employees engaged in research and development activities at December 31, 2007 increased to 4,676, or by 22.8% over the previous year. We also had increases in costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware that were attributable to the increase in headcount. In addition, facilities costs increased due to the 2007 build out and relocation of our Irvine facilities. There were increased mask and prototyping costs during 2007 due to the transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology. These costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. For a further discussion of stock based compensation included in research and development expense, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. We anticipate that research and development expense will continue to increase in 2008 as we ready a number of design wins to go into production and over the long term as a result of growth in, and the diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. We anticipate that research and development expense in the first quarter of 2008 will increase from the $363.3 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007, but at a slower rate than we experienced in 2007, due to our continued investment in new products and the migration to 65 nanometer process technology, as well as additional expenses related to the hiring of additional personnel. We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. We currently hold more than 2,500 U.S. and 1,000 foreign patents, and we maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. 60 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The 2007 decrease in selling, general and administrative expense resulted primarily from a decrease of $25.6 million in legal fees, offset by an increase of $26.4 million in personnel related expenses. The increase in personnel related expenses is primarily attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities since the end of 2006, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions. Employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities increased to 1,234, or by 16.3% over the previous year. In addition, facilities costs increased due to the 2007 build out and relocation of our Irvine facilities. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and costs of our ongoing litigation matters. We maintain insurance polices that limit our exposure and enable us to recover a portion of our legal fees paid related to our equity award review. In 2007 we received or recorded receivables for reimbursements in the amount of $17.2 million related to costs recoverable under these insurance policies, which are reflected as an offset to legal expense. In certain limited circumstances, portions of these amounts recovered from our insurance carriers may be required to be repaid. We regularly evaluate the need to record a liability for potential future repayments in accordance with SFAS 5, and as of December 31, 2007 we have not recorded a liability in connection with these potential insurance recovery provisions. For a discussion of stock based compensation included in selling, general and administrative expense, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense will increase over the long term resulting from any expansion of our operations through periodic changes in our infrastructure, acquisition and integration activities, international operations, and current and future litigation. We anticipate that selling, general and administrative expense in the first quarter of 2008 will be higher as compared to the $119.3 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007, due primarily to expected increased legal fees. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 139,533 136,679 $ 519,652 $ 468,364 The amount of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed from 2008 through 2011 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2007 is $948.3 million. Of this amount, $415.5 million, $302.7 million, $175.6 million and $54.5 million are currently estimated to be recorded in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The weighted average period over which the unearned stock based compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.5 years. Approximately 94.2% of the total unearned stock based compensation at December 31, 2007 will be expensed by the end of 2010. The increase in unearned stock based compensation of $118.4 million at December 31, 2007 from the $829.9 million balance at December 31, 2006 was primarily the result of share based awards granted during 2007 including the grant of employee stock options to purchase 21.9 million shares of our common stock, the award of 12.2 million restricted stock units, and the accumulation of rights to purchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock by employees participating in our employee stock purchase program, offset in part by stock based compensation of $519.7 million expensed during 2007. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock 61 Table of Contents based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Charges Related to the Voluntary Review of our Equity Award Practices In connection with our equity award review, the results of which were reported in January 2007, we determined the accounting measurement dates for most of our options granted between June 1998 and May 2003 covering options to purchase 232.9 million shares of our Class A or Class B common stock, differed from the measurement dates previously used for such awards. As a result, there are potential adverse tax consequences that may apply to holders of affected options. By amending or replacing those options, the potential adverse tax consequences could be eliminated. In March 2007 we offered to amend or replace options affected by the choice of measurement dates by adjusting the exercise price of each such option to the lower of (i) the fair market value per share of our Class A common stock on the revised measurement date applied to that option as a result of our equity award review or (ii) the closing selling price per share of our Class A common stock on the date on which the option would be amended. If the adjusted exercise price for an affected option was lower than the original exercise price, that option was not amended but instead was replaced with a new option that had the same exercise price, vesting schedule and expiration date as the affected option, but a new grant date. The offer expired April 20, 2007. Participants whose options were amended pursuant to the offer were paid a special cash payment with respect to those options. The amount paid was determined by multiplying (i) the amount of the increase in exercise price by (ii) the number of shares for which options were amended. We made payments of $29.6 million in January 2008 to reimburse the affected optionholders for the increases in their exercise prices. A liability was recorded for these payments and included in wages and related benefits as of December 31, 2007. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we recorded total estimated charges of $3.4 million in 2007 and a reduction of additional paid in capital in the amount of $26.2 million in connection with the offer. Charges of $0.1 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million are included in cost of revenue, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively. We also recorded total charges of $61.5 million in 2006 in connection with payments we made to or on behalf of certain current and former employees related to consequences of the voluntary review of our equity award practices, as well as non cash stock based compensation expense we incurred related to the extension of the post service stock option exercise period for certain former employees. The payments were (i) to remunerate participants in our employee stock purchase plan who were unable to purchase shares thereunder during the period in which we were not current in our SEC reporting obligations, (ii) to remediate adverse tax consequences, if any, to individuals that resulted from the review, and (iii) to compensate individuals for the value of stock options that expired or would have expired during the period in which we were not current in our SEC reporting obligations. A total of $2.5 million, $30.1 million and $28.9 million was included in cost of revenue, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively, for such charges in 2006, of which $6.5 million and $5.1 million included in research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively, was stock based compensation expense. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in each expense category: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 13,485 $ 10,056 Operating expense 1,027 2,347 $ 14,512 $ 12,403 62 Table of Contents The following table presents details of future amortization of purchased intangible assets. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 15,738 $ 15,264 $ 12,527 $ 1,023 $ $ 44,552 Operating expense 733 622 600 100 2,055 $ 16,471 $ 15,886 $ 13,127 $ 1,123 $ $ 46,607 In Process Research and Development In process research and development, or IPRD, totaled $15.5 million and $5.2 million for acquisitions completed in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs, as clarified by FIN No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 2, amounts assigned to IPRD meeting the above stated criteria were charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price. The fair value of the IPRD for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles, and market penetration and growth rates. The IPRD charges include only the fair value of IPRD performed as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as developed technology, represent the fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPRD for acquisitions completed in 2007 and 2006: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2007 Acquisitions LVL7 Enhancements to FASTPATH application platform 31 % 1.0 $ 7.8 21 % $ 0.3 Octalica High performance communication controller 52 1.0 6.8 29 10.2 Global Locate Single chip GPS device 62 1.5 5.6 20 5.0 2006 Acquisition Sandburst 20Gbps programmable packet processor 15 2.0 11.2 30 5.2 As of the respective acquisition dates of the 2007 and 2006 acquisitions, certain ongoing development projects were in process. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological 63 Table of Contents feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2007 all of the above development projects were still in process. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Restructuring Costs For a discussion of activity and liability balances related to our past restructuring plans, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Intangible Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142, in October 2007 and 2006. Upon completion of the 2007 and 2006 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of our four reporting units, determined and identified in accordance with SFAS 142, exceeded its respective carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete four year financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes and consistent with those distributed to our Board of Directors. Cash flows beyond the four year discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating the present value techniques discussed in FASB Concepts Statement 7, Using Cash Flow Information and Present Value in Accounting Measurements, or Concepts Statement 7. Specifically, the income approach valuations included reporting unit cash flow discount rates ranging from 13% to 19%, and terminal value growth rates ranging from 5% to 10%. Publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of our company was also considered in assessing the reasonableness of the cumulative fair values of our reporting units estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net, for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 131,069 3.4 % $ 118,997 3.3 % $ 12,072 10.1 % Other income, net 3,412 0.1 3,964 0.1 (552 ) (13.9 ) Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Other income, net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. Our cash and marketable securities balances decreased from $2.802 billion at December 31, 2006 to $2.404 billion at December 31, 2007, resulting principally from repurchases of our Class A common stock and cash used for acquisitions, offset by cash generated from operations. Although the 2007 year end balance was slightly less than the 2006 year end balance, our average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances during the year increased. The increase in interest income, net, for 2007 was the result of the overall increase in our average cash and marketable securities balances, as well as 64 Table of Contents an increase in market interest rates. The weighted average interest rates earned for 2007 and 2006 were 5.12% and 4.91%, respectively. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) The following table presents the income tax provision (benefit) for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision (benefit) $ 6,114 0.2 % $ (12,400 ) (0.3 )% $ 18,514 (149.3 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2007 and 2006. We had income tax benefits which resulted in effective tax rates of 2.8% and negative 3.4% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal tax rate and domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $6.0 million and $29.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitations for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. SFAS 109 states that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax assets of $3.3 million and $1.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2006 the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 provides detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. As a result of applying the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized a decrease of $3.9 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a $4.7 million reduction in accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2007. In addition we reclassified certain tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as related potential penalties and interest, from current liabilities to long term liabilities. Our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007 relate to various foreign jurisdictions. At December 31, 2007 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $21.6 million which included $17.8 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2007, and in total, as of December 31, 2007, we have a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $13.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 65 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2006 and 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 2,670,788 100.0 % $ 997,030 37.3 % Cost of revenue(1) 1,795,565 49.0 1,267,799 47.5 527,766 41.6 Gross profit $ 1,872,253 51.0 % $ 1,402,989 52.5 % $ 469,264 33.4 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contributions to the increase in net revenue in 2006 as compared to 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 1,384,969 37.8 % $ 919,798 34.4 % $ 465,171 50.6 % Enterprise networking 1,181,938 32.2 1,063,142 39.8 118,796 11.2 Mobile and wireless 1,100,911 30.0 687,848 25.8 413,063 60.1 Net revenue $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 2,670,788 100.0 % $ 997,030 37.3 The 2006 increase in net revenue from our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from an increase in net revenue from solutions for broadband modems and digital set top boxes. The 2006 increase in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market was attributable to our enterprise Ethernet and controller products. The 2006 increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strength in our Bluetooth, wireless LAN and mobile multimedia product offerings. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $251.2 million and $220.8 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. The 2006 increase in gross profit resulted primarily from the 37.3% increase in net revenue. Gross margin decreased from 52.5% in 2005 to 51.0% in 2006. The primary factors that contributed to this 1.5 percentage point decrease were (i) increases in product costs and (ii) increases in stock based compensation expense resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R, partially offset by (iii) improvements as a percentage of revenue of manufacturing overhead due to our significant growth. Research and Development and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table presents research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses for 2006 and 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development(1) $ 1,117,014 30.5 % $ 681,047 25.5 % $ 435,967 64.0 % Selling, general and administrative(1) 504,012 13.7 274,260 10.3 229,752 83.8 66 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Research and Development Expense. The 2006 increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from an increase of $238.5 million in stock based compensation expense, an increase of $116.1 million in personnel related expenses, and $23.6 million in estimated payments we decided to make to or on behalf of certain current and former employees related to consequences of the equity award review. These increases are primarily attributable to (i) our adoption of SFAS 123R, (ii) an increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities in 2006, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions and (iii) an increase in cash compensation levels. For a further discussion of the increase in stock based compensation, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. The 2006 increase in selling, general and administrative expense resulted primarily from an increase of $107.4 million in stock based compensation expense, an increase of $54.5 million in legal fees, an increase of $21.5 million in personnel related expenses and $23.8 million in estimated payments we decided to make to or on behalf of certain current and former employees related to consequences of the voluntary review of our equity award practices. These increases are primarily attributable to (i) our adoption of SFAS 123R, (ii) the cost of ongoing litigation, (iii) an increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities in 2006 and (iv) an increase in cash compensation levels. In addition, we incurred legal and accounting fees associated with the equity award review of $11.6 million primarily in the second half of 2006. For a further discussion of the increase in stock based compensation, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Years Ended December 31, 2006(1) 2005 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 24,589 $ 4,177 Research and development 307,096 68,606 Selling, general and administrative 136,679 29,232 $ 468,364 $ 102,015 (1) The amounts included in 2006 reflect the adoption of SFAS 123R. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our consolidated statement of income for 2005 has not been restated to reflect, and does not include, the impact of SFAS 123R. See Notes 1 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets by expense category: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 10,056 $ 11,081 Operating expense 2,347 4,033 $ 12,403 $ 15,114 67 Table of Contents In Process Research and Development IPRD totaled $5.2 million and $43.5 million for acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2005, respectively. For a description of the 2006 IPRD projects, including the valuation techniques used and significant assumptions at the acquisitions dates underlying the valuations, as well as an update on the status of such projects as of December 31, 2007, see the discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, above. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPRD for our acquisitions in 2005: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2005 Acquisitions Zeevo Bluetooth wireless audio chipset 85 % 1.0 $ 5.5 22 % $ 6.7 Siliquent 10 GbE server controller 40 1.0 17.3 27 35.0 Athena Tuners and low power Wi Fi chips 85 0.5 0.9 27 1.8 Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. As of the respective acquisition dates of the 2005 acquisitions, certain ongoing development projects were in process. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We completed the development projects related to the Zeevo acquisition in 2005 and the Siliquent and Athena acquisitions in 2006. Settlement Costs We recorded $110.0 million in settlement costs in 2005 primarily related to the settlement of securities class action litigation against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. For a more detailed discussion of our settled and outstanding litigation, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Costs For a discussion of activity and liability balances related to our past restructuring plans, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Intangible Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS 142, in October 2006 and 2005. Upon completion of the 2006 and 2005 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of our four reporting units, determined and identified in accordance with SFAS 142, exceeded its respective carrying value. See Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of impairment of goodwill. 68 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net, for 2006 and 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 118,997 3.3 % $ 51,207 1.9 % $ 67,790 132.4 % Other income, net 3,964 0.1 3,465 0.1 499 14.4 The increase in interest income, net, was the result of an overall increase in our cash and marketable securities balances and an increase in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.876 billion at December 31, 2005 to $2.802 billion at December 31, 2006. The average interest rates earned for 2006 and 2005 were 4.91% and 3.48%, respectively. Income Tax Benefit The following table presents the income tax benefit for 2006 and 2005: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax benefit $ (12,400 ) (0.3 )% $ (20,220 ) (0.8 )% $ (7,820 ) (38.7 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2006 and 2005. We had income tax benefits which resulted in negative effective tax rates of 3.4% and 5.8% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal tax rate and domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $29.8 million and $28.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitations for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax assets of $1.8 million and $1.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 69 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net Gross Net Per Revenue Profit Income Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2007 Fourth Quarter(1) $ 1,027,035 $ 538,813 $ 90,335 (2) $ .16 Third Quarter 949,959 483,989 27,760 (3) .05 Second Quarter 897,920 460,883 34,256 (4) .06 First Quarter 901,481 460,532 60,991 (5) .10 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Fourth Quarter $ 923,454 $ 469,636 $ 45,076 (6) $ .08 Third Quarter 902,586 452,422 110,181 (7) .19 Second Quarter 941,131 483,757 106,086 .18 First Quarter 900,647 466,438 117,698 (8) .20 (1) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. (2) Includes gain on strategic investments of $3.0 million. (3) Includes IPRD of $5.0 million and loss on strategic investments of $2.1 million. (4) Includes IPRD of $10.2 million and income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of certain foreign subsidiaries or various foreign jurisdictions of $4.6 million. (5) Includes IPRD of $0.3 million, impairment of other intangible assets of $1.5 million, loss on strategic investments of $2.6 million and charges related to the equity award review in the amount of $3.4 million. (6) Includes charges related to the equity award review in the amount of $50.6 million. (7) Includes income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries of $27.9 million and charges related to the equity award review in the amount of $10.9 million. (8) Includes IPRD of $5.2 million, income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries of $1.7 million, and gain on strategic investments of $0.7 million. 70 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006 the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS 157. SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that SFAS 157 may have on our future consolidated financial statements. In February 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, or SFAS 159. SFAS 159 allows companies to elect to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value and is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. This standard is not expected to have a material impact on our future consolidated financial statements. In June 2007 the FASB ratified EITF No. 07 3, or EITF 07 3, Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development Activities. EITF 07 3 requires non refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities to be recorded as an asset and the payments to be expensed when the research and development activities are performed. EITF 07 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. This standard is not expected to have a material impact on our future consolidated financial statements. In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141R. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statement to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, any business combinations we engage in will be recorded and disclosed following existing GAAP until January 1, 2009. We expect SFAS No. 141R will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements when effective, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate after the effective date. We are still assessing the impact of this standard on our future consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, Increase 2007 2006 (Decrease) (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,296,671 $ 2,673,087 $ (376,416 ) Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 2,186,572 $ 2,158,110 $ 28,462 Short term marketable securities(1) 141,728 522,340 (380,612 ) Long term marketable securities 75,352 121,148 (45,796 ) $ 2,403,652 $ 2,801,598 $ (397,946 ) (1) Included in working capital. Our working capital, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased in 2007 primarily due to repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, offset by cash provided by operations. For a more detailed description of cash provided or used in 2007 and 2006, see below. 71 Table of Contents Cash Provided and Used in 2007 and 2006. Cash and cash equivalents increased to $2.187 billion at December 31, 2007 from $2.158 billion at December 31, 2006 as a result of the following: December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 831,909 $ 891,659 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 47,813 (369,754 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (851,260 ) 198,929 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 28,462 $ 720,834 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period $ 2,158,110 $ 1,437,276 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 2,186,572 $ 2,158,110 In 2007 our operating activities provided $831.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $213.3 million in net income, $614.5 million in net non cash operating expenses and cash of $4.1 million provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income include depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPRD, impairment of intangible assets and losses on strategic investments. In 2006 our operating activities provided $891.7 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $379.0 million in net income and $532.9 million in net non cash operating expenses, offset in part by net cash used of $20.2 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income include depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPRD and gains on strategic investments. Accounts receivable decreased $13.8 million from $382.8 million in 2006 to $369.0 million in 2007. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If, in the longer term, our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could further increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers. Inventories increased $28.5 million, from $202.8 million in 2006 to $231.3 million in 2007. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined based upon the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, as well as competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing activities provided cash of $47.8 million in 2007, which was primarily the result of $426.4 million provided by the net proceeds from maturities of marketable securities and proceeds of $14.0 million received in connection with an escrow settlement from our acquisition of Siliquent, offset in part by the purchase of $159.6 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the build out and relocation of our facilities in Irvine, California and $233.3 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of LVL7, Octalica and Global Locate and other purchased intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $369.8 million in 2006, which was primarily the result of $70.1 million net cash paid in acquisitions, the purchase of $92.5 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the build out of our new facilities in Irvine, California, $205.2 million used in the net purchase of marketable securities, and the purchase of $2.7 million of strategic investments, offset by $0.7 million in net proceeds received from the sale of strategic investments. Our financing activities used $851.3 million in cash in 2007, which was primarily the result of $1.140 billion in repurchases of our Class A common stock pursuant to our share repurchase programs, offset by $289.0 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. Our financing activities provided $198.9 million in cash in 2006, which was primarily the result of $475.9 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, offset in part by $275.7 million in repurchases of our Class A common stock pursuant to our share repurchase programs. Due to the decrease in the average price of our Class A common stock as compared to the previous year, fewer stock options were exercised by employees, and we received reduced proceeds from the exercise of stock 72 Table of Contents options in 2007. The timing and number of stock option exercises and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Moreover, it is now our practice to issue a combination of restricted stock units and stock options to employees, which will reduce the number of stock options available for exercise in the future. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issuable upon vesting of restricted stock units during 2006 and 2007 withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each employees behalf. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2007: Payment Obligations by Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 118,766 $ 71,166 $ 47,040 $ 39,318 $ 31,497 $ 116,831 $ 424,618 Inventory and related purchase obligations 223,797 223,797 Other purchase obligations 65,816 1,424 760 24 68,024 Restructuring liabilities 4,460 2,134 863 7,457 Accrued settlement payments 2,036 2,036 Total $ 414,875 $ 74,724 $ 48,663 $ 39,342 $ 31,497 $ 116,831 $ 725,932 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2017. In December 2004 we entered into a lease agreement under which our corporate headquarters moved in 2007 to our current facilities in Irvine, California with an aggregate of approximately 0.69 million square feet. The lease term is for a period of ten years and two months which began in March 2007. The aggregate rent for the term of the lease, approximately $162.7 million, is included in the table above. Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. Other purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other purchase commitments made in the ordinary course of business. Our restructuring liabilities represent estimated future lease and operating costs from restructured facilities, less offsetting sublease income, if any. These costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Settlement payments represent payments to be made in connection with certain settlement and license agreements entered into in 2004 and 2003. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. 73 Table of Contents In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $18.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with FIN 48, and we are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential penalties and interest of $13.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the exercise of employee stock options and the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments and repurchases of our Class A common stock for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we could raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We have filed a universal shelf registration statement on SEC Form S 3 that allows us to sell in one or more public offerings, shares of our Class A common stock, shares of preferred stock or debt securities, or any combination of such securities, for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. We have not issued any securities under the universal shelf registration statement. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; volume price discounts and customer rebates; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; royalties payable by or to us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees during 2008 and possibly during future years; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan; and general economic conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets, including the effects of recent international conflicts and related uncertainties. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. At December 31, 2007 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements. 74 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. We do not use derivative financial instruments. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of December 31, 2007 the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Marketable securities, consisting of U.S. government obligations, commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, time deposits, foreign notes and certificates of deposits, are generally classified as held to maturity and are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. If in the future we hold marketable securities classified as available for sale, unrealized gains and losses on these investments would be reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Our investment policy for marketable securities requires that all securities mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than 18 months. As of December 31, 2007 the carrying value and fair value of these securities were $217.1 million and $217.2 million, respectively. The fair value of our marketable securities fluctuates based on changes in market conditions and interest rates; however, given the short term maturities, we do not believe these instruments are subject to significant market or interest rate risk. Investments in fixed rate, interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to rising interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, anticipated declining interest rates will negatively impact our investment income. The carrying value, maturity and estimated fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were as follows: Carrying Fair Value Value December 31, Maturity December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 780,805 $ 780,805 $ $ $ 780,803 Weighted average yield 4.20 % 4.20 % Marketable securities $ 217,080 $ 141,728 $ 37,268 $ 38,084 $ 217,181 Weighted average yield 4.86 % 4.90 % 4.74 % 4.85 % Carrying Fair Value Value December 31, Maturity December 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 (In thousands, except interest rates) Investments Cash equivalents $ 908,777 $ 908,777 $ $ $ 908,781 Weighted average yield 5.31 % 5.31 % Marketable securities $ 643,488 $ 522,340 $ 81,863 $ 39,285 $ 642,528 Weighted average yield 5.04 % 5.03 % 4.97 % 5.32 % We also have invested in privately held companies, the majority of which can still be considered to be in the start up or development stage. We make investments in key strategic businesses and other industry participants to 75 Table of Contents establish strategic relationships, expand existing relationships, and achieve a return on our investment. These investments are inherently risky, as the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in early stages and may never materialize. Likewise, the development projects of these companies may not be successful. In addition, early stage companies often fail for various other reasons. Consequently, we could lose our entire investment in these companies. As of December 31, 2007, the carrying and fair value of our strategic investments was $3.9 million. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
