Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. As a reminder, you should not rely on financial information included in the reports on Form 10 K, Form 10 Q and Form 8 K previously filed by Broadcom, the related opinions of our independent registered public accounting firm, or earnings press releases and similar communications issued by us, for periods ended on or before March 31, 2006, all of which have been superseded in their entirety by the information contained in our amended Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our amended Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q/A for the three months ended March 31, 2006, each filed January 23, 2007. For a discussion of the restated financial information contained in the amended Reports, see Equity Award Review, below. Overview Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. Broadcom provides the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. Our diverse product portfolio includes solutions for digital cable, satellite and Internet Protocol (IP) set top boxes and media servers; high definition television (HDTV); high definition DVD players and personal video recording (PVR) devices; cable and DSL modems and residential gateways; high speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; server solutions; broadband network and security processors; wireless and personal area networking; cellular communications; global positioning system (GPS) applications; mobile multimedia and applications processors; mobile power management; and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems. Net Revenue. Our net revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. We derive the remainder of our net revenue predominantly from royalty revenue received pursuant to a patent license agreement and, to a much lesser extent, software licenses, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our sales occurs through distributors. We sell our products to leading manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment in each of our target markets. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into equipment used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. The following table presents details of our net revenue: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Sales of semiconductor products 95.5 % 98.2 % 99.4 % Royalty and other 4.5 (1) 1.8 (1) 0.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes royalties in the amounts of $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Sales made through direct sales force 84.3 % 85.0 % 85.1 % Sales made through distributors 15.7 15.0 14.9 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 45 Table of Contents Sales made through distributors increased slightly in 2008 due to new product ramps for our mobile and wireless and broadband communications products, principally in Asia. The demand for our products has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, current general economic volatility, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the inability of certain of our customers who depend on credit to have access to their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, particularly in the current global economic environment, which may lead them to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our products and technologies in our target markets; and the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. For these and other reasons, our net revenue and results of operations in 2008 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the increasing volume of our products that are incorporated into consumer products, sales of which are typically subject to greater seasonality and greater volume fluctuations than non consumer OEM products. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our predicted future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product and negatively impact our cash flow. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Motorola * 11.2 % 15.4 % Cisco(1) * * 11.2 Five largest customers as a group 35.8 % 39.7 % 46.5 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. (1) Includes sales to Scientific Atlanta, which was acquired by Cisco in February 2006, for all periods presented. As we have broadened our customer base, net revenue derived from these top customers as a percentage of net revenue has decreased, even though the absolute dollars of net revenue have increased in some cases. However, we expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2009 and for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net 46 Table of Contents revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. The primary factors that contributed to the decrease in net revenue from our top customers as a percentage of net revenue were: (i) product mix changes with some of our large customers, (ii) new product ramps at new customers that increased our total revenues and (iii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Royalty revenue is currently expected to be recognized under this agreement through March 31, 2009. Net revenue derived from all independent customers located outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States even though such subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors are located outside of the United States, as a percentage of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Asia (primarily in Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan) 29.5 % 26.5 % 19.5 % Europe (primarily in Finland, France and the United Kingdom) 10.5 8.5 8.4 Other 0.5 0.5 0.3 40.5 % 35.5 % 28.2 % Net revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of total net revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Asia (primarily in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and Singapore) 83.5 % 81.2 % 79.2 % Europe (primarily in Hungary, Germany and Sweden) 2.7 2.9 3.3 Other 2.5 3.3 4.0 88.7 % 87.4 % 86.5 % All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Gross Margin. Our gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of net revenue, has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; licensing and royalty revenue; the effects of competition; the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as wafer pricing and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and overhead costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; product warranty costs; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories; amortization of purchased intangible assets; stock based compensation expense; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Net Income. Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: stock based compensation expense; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; licensing and royalty revenue; 47 Table of Contents in process research and development, or IPRD; litigation costs and insurance recoveries; settlement costs; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock; amortization of purchased intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; gain (loss) on strategic investments; and restructuring costs or reversals thereof. In 2008 our net income was $214.8 million (including $149.2 million in royalty revenue received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007) as compared to $213.3 million in 2007 (including $31.8 million in royalty revenue received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007), a difference of $1.5 million. This slight increase in profitability was primarily the result of a $413.7 million increase in operating expenses, a decrease in interest income of $78.9 million and an increase in provision for income taxes of $1.4 million, offset in part by increased gross profit of $500.9 million (including a $117.4 million net increase in royalty revenue) generated from a $881.7 million increase in net revenue. Net revenue in 2008 increased across each of our three target markets: (i) broadband communications, (ii) mobile and wireless and (iii) enterprise networking. The increase in net revenue from our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top box, broadband modem, high definition DVD and digital TV products. The increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strong growth driven by new products and customer ramps for our Bluetooth, wireless LAN, touch controller and GPS product offerings, as well as a net increase in royalty revenue in the amount of $117.4 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007, offset in part by a decrease in demand for our mobile multimedia product offerings. The increase in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand attributable to our Ethernet switch, broadband network and security processor product lines. Operating expenses increased principally due to an increase in the number of employees engaged in operating activities, and increased mask and prototyping costs due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology. Operating expenses also increased due to (i) an increase in cash compensation levels since December 31, 2007 as a result of our annual merit increase program, (ii) an increase in impairment charges of goodwill and other long lived assets of $170.1 million primarily related to our mobile platforms business group (iii) an increase in IPRD charges of $26.9 million and (iv) settlement costs of $15.8 million. We expect research and development costs to also increase over the long term as a result of growth in, and the diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Mobile Platforms Business. The development and introduction of new products often requires substantial research and development resources. During the last five years we have incurred substantial expenditures on the development of new products for the cellular handset market. Approximately 25% of the $1.498 billion in research 48 Table of Contents and development expense for 2008 was attributable to our mobile platforms business. However, this market is characterized by very long product development and sales cycles due to the significant qualification requirements of cellular handset makers and wireless network operators, and accordingly, it is common to experience significant delays from the time research and development efforts commence to the time corresponding revenues are generated. Due to these lengthy product development and sales cycles, our mobile platforms business had a material negative impact on our earnings in 2008, including impairment charges of $169.4 million recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2008 relating to this business and may continue to do so until we realize significant cellular revenues. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2008 most of the revenue that we derived from our mobile platforms business related to the $149.2 million in royalties we received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Up to $19.0 million of royalty revenue is currently expected to be recognized under this agreement in the quarter ending March 31, 2009. As a result, after March 31, 2009, our mobile platforms business could have a greater dilutive impact on our results of operations. Although we currently expect to begin deriving additional revenue from our cellular handset products later in 2009, it is possible that our customers may delay their product development plans or that their products will not be commercially successful, which would continue to materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the acquisitions made in 2008, 2007 and 2006. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 we completed seven acquisitions for original total equity consideration of $7.4 million and total cash consideration of $457.7 million. In 2008 we acquired Sunext Design, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sunext Technology Corporation, Ltd., which specialized in the design of optical storage semiconductor products, and certain assets of the digital TV business of Advance Micro Devices, Inc., or DTV Business of AMD, which designs and markets applications and communications processors for the digital television market. In 2007 we acquired LVL7 Systems, Inc., a privately held developer of production ready networking software that enables networking original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers to reduce development expenses and compress development timelines; Octalica, Inc., a privately held fabless semiconductor company that specializes in the design and development of networking technologies based on the MoCA standard, which enables distribution of high quality multimedia content throughout the home over existing coaxial cable; and Global Locate, Inc., a privately held, fabless provider of industry leading global positioning system and assisted GPS semiconductor products and software. In 2006 we acquired Sandburst Corporation, a fabless semiconductor company specializing in the design and development of packet switching and routing systems on a chip that are deployed in enterprise core and metropolitan Ethernet networks, and Encentrus Systems, Inc., a developer of media center technology. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to these acquisitions. Business Enterprise Segments. We operate in one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, or SFAS 131, establishes standards for the way public business enterprises report information about operating segments in annual consolidated financial statements and requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in interim financial reports. SFAS 131 also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. 49 Table of Contents Although we had four operating segments at December 31, 2008, under the aggregation criteria set forth in SFAS 131 we operate in only one reportable operating segment, wired and wireless broadband communications. Under SFAS 131, two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single operating segment for financial reporting purposes if aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS 131, if the segments have similar economic characteristics, and if the segments are similar in each of the following areas: the nature of products and services; the nature of the production processes; the type or class of customer for their products and services; and the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services. We meet each of the aggregation criteria for the following reasons: the sale of integrated circuits is the only material source of revenue for each of our four operating segments, other than royalty revenue in one of our operating segments in 2008; the integrated circuits sold by each of our operating segments use the same standard CMOS manufacturing processes; the integrated circuits marketed by each of our operating segments are sold to one type of customer: manufacturers of wired and wireless communications equipment, which incorporate our integrated circuits into their electronic products; and all of our integrated circuits are sold through a centralized sales force and common wholesale distributors. All of our operating segments share similar economic characteristics as they have a similar long term business model, operate in the long term at gross margins similar to our consolidated gross margin, and have similar research and development expenses and similar selling, general and administrative expenses. The causes for variation among our operating segments are the same and include factors such as (i) life cycle (including development of new products) and price and cost fluctuations, (ii) number of competitors, (iii) product differentiation and (iv) size of market opportunity. Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required are similar for each operating segment. Finally, even though we periodically reorganize our operating segments based upon changes in customers, end markets or products, acquisitions, long term growth strategies, and the experience and bandwidth of the senior executives in charge, the common financial goals for each operating segment remain constant. Because we meet each of the criteria set forth in SFAS 131 and our four operating segments as of December 31, 2008 share similar economic characteristics, we have aggregated our results of operations into one reportable operating segment. Equity Award Review In January 2007 we reported the results of a voluntary review of our equity award practices. The voluntary review, which commenced in May 2006 and covered all grants of options and other equity awards made since our initial public offering in April 1998, was directed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Based on the results of the equity award review, the Audit Committee concluded that, pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, or APB 25, and related interpretations, the accounting measurement dates for most of the stock option grants awarded between June 1998 and May 2003, covering options to purchase 232.9 million shares of our Class A or Class B common stock, differed from the measurement dates previously used for such awards. As a result, revised measurement dates were applied to the affected option grants and Broadcom recorded a total of $2.259 billion in additional stock based compensation expense for the years 1998 through 2005. After related tax adjustments of $38.7 million, the restatement resulted in total net adjustments of $2.220 billion for the years 1998 through 2005. This amount was net of forfeitures related to employee terminations. The additional stock based compensation expense was amortized over the service period relating to each option, typically four years, with 95% of the total expense recorded in years prior to 2004. In addition, $17.2 million of other net adjustments was recorded in connection with our equity award review in the three months ended March 31, 2006. 50 Table of Contents None of the grants requiring measurement date adjustment was made to any co founders or to any current or former member of our Board of Directors. As a consequence of these adjustments, our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for the three years ended December 31, 2005 and our consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet data for the five years ended December 31, 2005 were restated. We also restated the stock based compensation expense footnote information calculated under SFAS 123 and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, under the disclosure only alternatives of those pronouncements for the years 2003 through 2005. The restated information was contained in our Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed January 23, 2007. The adjustments did not affect Broadcoms previously reported revenue, cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities balances in any of the restated periods. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are either (i) critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates or assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements or (ii) other key accounting policies that generally do not require us to make estimates or assumptions but may require us to make difficult or subjective judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements in which our semiconductor products and software are delivered concurrently and post contract customer support is not provided, we recognize revenue upon shipment of the semiconductor product, assuming all other basic revenue recognition criteria are met, as both the semiconductor products and software are considered delivered elements and no undelivered elements exist. In limited instances in which there are undelivered elements, we allocate revenue based on the relative fair value of the individual elements. If there is no established fair value for an undelivered element, the entire arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of accounting, resulting in a deferral of revenue and costs for the delivered element until the undelivered element has been fulfilled. In the case that the undelivered element is data or a support service, the revenue and costs applicable to both the delivered and undelivered elements are recorded ratably over the respective service period or estimated product life. If the undelivered element is 51 Table of Contents essential to the functionality of the delivered element, no revenue or costs are recognized until the undelivered element is delivered. If we enter into future multiple element arrangements in which the fair value of each deliverable is not known, the portion of revenue we recognize on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, which could cause even greater fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our royalty revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our revenue, gross profit and net income. We record deferred revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions to revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our revenue, gross profit and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions to revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory and Warranty Reserves. We establish inventory reserves for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory reserves could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we 52 Table of Contents engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our gross profit and gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS 123R, which requires all share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. Under this standard, the fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. The Black Scholes model meets the requirements of SFAS 123R but the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of no dividend payouts. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. We will evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization, and the amount assigned to in process research and development is expensed immediately. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a further significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In the process of our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. 53 Table of Contents Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction to income tax expense in the period of such realization. In July 2006 the FASB, issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN 48, which requires income tax positions to meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold should be recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold should be derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. Prior to 2007 we recorded estimated income tax liabilities to the extent they were probable and could be reasonably estimated. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement charges. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact gross profit and gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a charge equal to at least the minimum estimated liability for a loss contingency when both of the following conditions are met: (i) information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and (ii) the amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, the actual liability in any such disputes or litigation may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional costs. 54 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net revenue 100.0 %(1) 100.0 %(1) 100.0 % Cost of revenue 47.5 48.5 49.0 Gross profit 52.5 (1) 51.5 (1) 51.0 Operating expense: Research and development 32.1 35.7 30.5 Selling, general and administrative 11.7 13.0 13.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.1 0.1 In process research and development 0.9 0.4 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 3.7 0.1 Settlement costs 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) Income from operations 3.7 (1) 2.3 (1) 6.6 Interest income, net 1.1 3.4 3.3 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 4.8 (1) 5.8 (1) 10.0 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.2 0.2 (0.3 ) Net income 4.6 %(1) 5.6 %(1) 10.3 % (1) Includes royalties in the amounts of $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Cost of revenue 0.5 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Research and development 7.7 9.4 8.4 Selling, general and administrative 2.7 3.7 3.7 55 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 4,658,125 (2) 100.0 % $ 3,776,395 (2) 100.0 % $ 881,730 23.3 % Cost of revenue(1) 2,213,015 47.5 1,832,178 48.5 380,837 20.8 Gross profit $ 2,445,110 (2) 52.5 % $ 1,944,217 (2) 51.5 % $ 500,893 25.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. (2) Includes royalties in the amounts of $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Net Revenue. Our revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor products. Our broadband communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our mobile and wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our enterprise networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Net revenue is revenue less reductions for rebates and provisions for returns and allowances. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2008 as compared to 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ 1,412,293 37.4 % $ 310,378 22.0 % Mobile and wireless 1,677,410 (1) 36.0 1,224,434 (1) 32.4 452,976 (1) 37.0 Enterprise networking 1,258,044 27.0 1,139,668 30.2 118,376 10.4 Net revenue $ 4,658,125 (1) 100.0 % $ 3,776,395 (1) 100.0 % $ 881,730 23.3 (1) Includes royalties in the amount of $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The increase in net revenue from our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top box, broadband modem, high definition DVD and digital TV products. The increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from strong growth driven by new products and customer ramps for our Bluetooth, wireless LAN, touch controller and GPS product offerings, as well as a net increase in royalty revenue in the amount of $117.4 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007, offset in part by a decrease in demand for our mobile multimedia product offerings. The increase in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand attributable to our Ethernet switch, broadband network and security processor product lines. 56 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contribution to net revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2008: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2008 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 440,983 39.1 % $ 458,323 35.3 % $ (17,340 ) (3.8 )% Mobile and wireless 409,482 (1) 36.3 494,429 (1) 38.1 (84,947 )(1) (17.2 ) Enterprise networking 276,044 24.6 345,723 26.6 (69,679 ) (20.2 ) Net revenue $ 1,126,509 (1) 100.0 % $ 1,298,475 (1) 100.0 % $ (171,966 ) (13.2 ) (1) Includes royalties in the amounts of $40.0 million and $38.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The decrease in net revenue in our broadband communications target market resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital TV and high definition DVD products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our digital set top box products. The decrease in net revenue for our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from seasonal demand for our Bluetooth, wireless LAN and touch controller products. The decrease in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from decreased demand for our Ethernet switch and controller products. In July 2007 we entered into a patent license agreement with a wireless network operator. Under the agreement, royalty payments will be made to us at a rate of $6.00 per unit for each applicable unit sold by the operator on or after the date of the agreement, subject to certain conditions, including without limitation a maximum payment of $40.0 million per calendar quarter and a lifetime maximum of $200.0 million. Up to $19.0 million of royalty revenue is currently expected to be recognized under this agreement in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue and $222.3 million, or 5.9% of net revenue, in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We account for rebates in accordance with EITF Issue No. 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products), or EITF 01 9, and, accordingly, at the time of the sale we accrue 100% of the potential rebate as a reduction to revenue and do not apply a breakage factor. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms included in our various rebate agreements. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. We reversed accrued rebates in the amount of $39.6 million and $22.4 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. Cost of revenue includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. The 2008 increase in absolute dollars of gross profit resulted primarily from the 23.3% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 51.5% in 2007 to 52.5% in 2008. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in gross margin were: (i) a net increase in royalty revenue in the amount of $117.4 million, (ii) a reversal of warranty reserves of $10.6 million and (iii) a net increase in the reversal of rebates in the amount of $17.3 million related to unclaimed rebates; offset in part by an increase in excess and obsolete inventory reserves in 57 Table of Contents the amount of $14.2 million due to increased inventory levels.For a discussion of stock based compensation included in cost of revenue, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. Gross margin has been and will likely continue to be impacted by our product mix and volume of product sales, including sales to high volume customers, royalty revenue, competitive pricing programs and rebates, fluctuations in silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, competitive pricing requirements, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, the position of our products in their respective life cycles, and the introduction of products with lower margins, among other factors. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur other costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense for 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 706,667 15.2 % $ 594,985 15.8 % $ 111,682 18.8 % Stock based compensation(1) 358,018 7.7 353,649 9.4 4,369 1.2 Development and design costs 211,801 4.5 209,980 5.6 1,821 0.9 Other 221,182 4.7 189,894 4.9 31,288 16.5 Research and development $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 1,348,508 35.7 % $ 149,160 11.1 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increases in salaries and benefits are primarily attributable to (i) a net increase in headcount by 861 personnel (predominantly as a result of our acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD and in the mobile and wireless area) to 5,537 at December 31, 2008, which represents an 18.4% increase from our December 31, 2007 levels, as well as (ii) an increase in cash compensation levels as a result of our annual merit review program in May 2008. In 2008 development and design costs were relatively flat, however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The increase in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in our facilities and equipment expenses. We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. We currently hold more than 3,100 U.S. and 1,400 foreign patents, and we maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. This represents an increase of 600 U.S. and 400 foreign patents issued in the last year. 58 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 213,269 4.6 % $ 176,152 4.7 % $ 37,117 21.1 % Stock based compensation(1) 126,359 2.7 139,533 3.7 (13,174 ) (9.4 ) Legal and accounting fees 141,629 3.0 100,270 2.7 41,359 41.2 Other 61,860 1.4 76,782 1.9 (14,922 ) (19.4 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 543,117 11.7 % $ 492,737 13.0 % $ 50,380 10.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increases in salaries and benefits are primarily attributable to (i) a net increase in headcount by 108 personnel to 1,342 at December 31, 2008, which represents an 8.8% increase from our December 31, 2007 levels, as well as (ii) an increase in cash compensation levels as a result of our annual merit review program in May 2008. The remainder of the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in legal and accounting fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings, and the consummation of various transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation from time to time, including intellectual property and securities litigation. We have obligations to indemnify certain of our present and former directors, officers and employees to the maximum extent not prohibited by law. Under these obligations, Broadcom is required to indemnify each such director, officer and employee against expenses, including attorneys fees, judgments, fines and settlements, paid by such individual in connection with our currently outstanding securities litigation and related government investigations described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (subject to certain exceptions). The potential amount of the future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant. We maintain directors and officers insurance policies that may limit our exposure and enable us to recover a portion of our legal fees paid related to these obligations. However, certain of our insurance carriers have reserved their rights under these policies, and in the third quarter of 2008 one of our insurance carriers notified us that coverage was not available and that it intended to suspend payment to us. As a result, we ceased receiving reimbursements under these policies for our expenses related to the matters described above. However, in January 2009 we entered into an agreement with that insurance carrier and certain of our other insurance carriers pursuant to which, without prejudicing our rights or the rights of such insurers, we will receive a payment from these insurers under these insurance policies. In the three months ended June 30, 2008, due to a change in the underlying facts and circumstances related to director and officer claims, we commenced recognizing reimbursements from our directors and officers insurance carriers on a cash basis, pursuant to which we record a reduction to selling, general and administrative expense only when cash is actually received from our insurance carriers instead of offsetting the expenses in a quarter with a receivable from the carriers. In the six months ended June 30, 2008 we recorded a reduction of $9.5 million to selling, general and administrative expense related to insurance recoveries. No insurance proceeds were received in the second half of 2008. From inception of the securities litigation and related government investigations through December 31, 2008, we have recovered legal expenses in the amount of $26.7 million under these insurance policies, which amount we have recorded as a reduction to selling, general and administrative expense. In certain limited circumstances, all or portions of the amounts recovered from our insurance carriers may be required to be repaid. We regularly evaluate the need to record a liability for potential future repayments in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, or SFAS 5. As of December 31, 2008 we have not recorded a liability in connection with these potential insurance repayment provisions. 59 Table of Contents In connection with our currently outstanding securities litigation and related government investigations described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2008 we advanced $42.0 million to certain former officers for attorney and expert fees for which we did not receive reimbursement from our insurance carriers, and which have been expensed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If our coverage under these policies is reduced or eliminated, our potential financial exposure in the pending securities litigation and related government actions would be increased. Our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our insurance coverage fails to pay or reimburse expenses and any judgments, fines or settlement costs that we may incur in connection with these matters or in the event we are required to repay amounts that were previously paid by our insurance companies. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 24,997 $ 26,470 Research and development 358,018 353,649 Selling, general and administrative 126,359 139,533 $ 509,374 $ 519,652 The amount of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed from 2009 through 2012 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2008 is $1.017 billion. Of this amount, $463.2 million, $318.0 million, $183.6 million and $52.4 million are currently estimated to be recorded in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The weighted average period over which the unearned stock based compensation is expected to be recognized is 1.4 years. The increase in unearned stock based compensation of $68.9 million at December 31, 2008 from the $948.3 million balance at December 31, 2007 was primarily the result of the fair value associated with share based awards granted during 2008, offset in part by stock based compensation of $509.4 million expensed during 2008. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Charges Related to the Voluntary Review of our Equity Award Practices In connection with our equity award review, the results of which were reported in January 2007, we determined the accounting measurement dates for most of our options granted between June 1998 and May 2003 covering options to purchase 232.9 million shares of our Class A or Class B common stock, differed from the measurement dates previously used for such awards. As a result, there are potential adverse tax consequences that may apply to holders of affected options. By amending or replacing those options, the potential adverse tax consequences could be eliminated. 60 Table of Contents In March 2007 we offered to amend or replace options affected by the change in measurement dates by adjusting the exercise price of each such option to the lower of (i) the fair market value per share of our Class A common stock on the revised measurement date applied to that option as a result of our equity award review or (ii) the closing selling price per share of our Class A common stock on the date on which the option would be amended. If the adjusted exercise price for an affected option was lower than the original exercise price, that option was not amended but instead was replaced with a new option that had the same exercise price, vesting schedule and expiration date as the affected option, but a new grant date. The offer expired April 20, 2007. Participants whose options were amended pursuant to the offer were paid a special cash payment with respect to those options. The amount paid was determined by multiplying (i) the amount of the increase in exercise price by (ii) the number of shares for which options were amended. We made payments of $29.6 million in January 2008 to reimburse the affected optionholders for the increases in their exercise prices. A liability was recorded for these payments and included in wages and related benefits as of December 31, 2007. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we recorded total estimated charges of $3.4 million in 2007 and a reduction of additional paid in capital in the amount of $26.2 million in connection with the offer. Charges of $0.1 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million are included in cost of revenue, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively. We also recorded total charges of $61.5 million in 2006 in connection with payments we made to or on behalf of certain current and former employees related to consequences of the voluntary review of our equity award practices, as well as non cash stock based compensation expense we incurred related to the extension of the post service stock option exercise period for certain former employees. The payments were (i) to remunerate participants in our employee stock purchase plan who were unable to purchase shares thereunder during the period in which we were not current in our SEC reporting obligations, (ii) to remediate adverse tax consequences, if any, to individuals that resulted from the review, and (iii) to compensate individuals for the value of stock options that expired or would have expired during the period in which we were not current in our SEC reporting obligations. A total of $2.5 million, $30.1 million and $28.9 million was included in cost of revenue, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively, for such charges in 2006, of which $6.5 million and $5.1 million included in research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense, respectively, was stock based compensation expense. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets by each expense category: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 15,857 $ 13,485 Operating expense 3,392 1,027 $ 19,249 $ 14,512 The following table presents details of estimated future straight line amortization of purchased intangible assets. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 15,976 $ 13,239 $ 1,380 $ $ $ 30,595 Operating expense 16,572 13,959 500 332 31,363 $ 32,548 $ 27,198 $ 1,880 $ 332 $ $ 61,958 61 Table of Contents In Process Research and Development In process research and development, or IPRD, totaled $42.4 million and $15.5 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD in 2008 and LVL7 Systems, Inc., Octalica, Inc. and Global Locate, Inc. in 2007. The amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs, as clarified by FIN No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 2, amounts assigned to IPRD meeting the above stated criteria were charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price. The fair value of the IPRD for each of the acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account product life cycles, and market penetration and growth rates. The IPRD charges include only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as developed technology, represent the fair values and approximate the amounts an independent party would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPRD for acquisitions completed in 2008 and 2007: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 1.0 6.9 24 31.5 2007 Acquisitions LVL7 Enhancements to FASTPATH application platform 31 1.0 7.8 21 0.3 Octalica High performance communication controller 52 1.0 6.8 29 10.2 Global Locate Single chip GPS device 62 1.5 5.6 20 5.0 As of the respective acquisition dates, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2008 development projects for our DTV business acquisition in 2008 were still in process. We completed all other development projects related to acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill as required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142, in October 2008 and 2007. In accordance with 62 Table of Contents SFAS 142, we compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to their estimated fair value. At October 1, 2008 and 2007, we had four reporting units as determined and identified in accordance with SFAS 142. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating the present value techniques discussed in FASB Concepts Statement 7, Using Cash Flow Information and Present Value in Accounting Measurements, or Concepts Statement 7. Specifically, the income approach valuations included reporting unit cash flow discount rates ranging from 15% to 17%, and terminal value growth rates ranging from 4% to 5%. Publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of Broadcom was also considered in assessing the reasonableness of the cumulative fair values of our reporting units estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Upon completion of the October 2007 annual impairment assessment, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the four reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of our mobile platforms business group exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test required under SFAS 142 to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the mobile platforms business group. In accordance with SFAS 142, the implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner as utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the mobile platforms business as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the excess of the fair value of the mobile platforms business group over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the mobile platforms business group was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our mobile platforms business group. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment in accordance with SFAS 144. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the asset group and its fair value. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on the results of this assessment, we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property, plant and equipment of our mobile platforms business group in the three months ended December 31, 2008. The primary factors contributing to these impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to assess the estimated fair value of the mobile platforms business group to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs 63 Table of Contents allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) For a discussion of activity and liability balances related to our past restructuring plans, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 52,201 1.1 % $ 131,069 3.4 % $ (78,868 ) (60.2 )% Other income (expense), net (2,016 ) 3,412 0.1 (5,428 ) (159.1 ) Interest income, net, reflects interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and short and long term marketable securities balances. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes recorded gains and losses on strategic investments and other than temporary impairments of marketable securities, as well as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and dispositions of property and equipment. The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates and a decrease in our average cash and marketable securities balances. Our cash and marketable securities balances decreased from $2.404 billion at December 31, 2007 to $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008, primarily due to repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock. The average interest rates earned for 2008 and 2007 were 2.42% and 5.12%, respectively. The 2008 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the Federal Reserve cutting the Federal Funds Rate from 4.25% to nearly 0% and a larger percentage of our portfolio being shifted to U.S. Treasury securities. The decrease in other income (expense), net was the result of an other than temporary impairment of a marketable security of $1.8 million and impairments of strategic investments in amounts totaling $4.3 million. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 7,521 0.2 % $ 6,114 0.2 % $ 1,407 23.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2008 and 2007. Our effective tax rates were 3.4% and 2.8% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2008 and 2007 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2007 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by the $1.5 billion dividend. We incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008, as a result of our $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the distribution. We recognized a federal tax benefit of $3.0 million in 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in The Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was signed into law July 30, 2008. In addition, we realized 64 Table of Contents tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $6.5 million and $6.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. SFAS 109 states that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million and $3.3 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2006 the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 provides detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. As a result of applying the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized a decrease of $3.9 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a $4.7 million reduction in accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2007. In addition we reclassified certain tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as related potential penalties and interest, from current liabilities to long term liabilities. Our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007 relate to various foreign jurisdictions. At December 31, 2008 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $21.2 million which included $19.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2008, and in total, as of December 31, 2008, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $13.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents net revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 3,776,395 (2) 100.0 % $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 108,577 3.0 % Cost of revenue(1) 1,832,178 48.5 1,795,565 49.0 36,613 2.0 Gross profit $ 1,944,217 (2) 51.5 % $ 1,872,253 51.0 % $ 71,964 3.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. (2) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million in 2007 received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. 65 Table of Contents Net Revenue. The following table presents net revenue from each of our major target markets and its respective contribution to the increase in net revenue in 2007 as compared to 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband communications $ 1,412,293 37.4 % $ 1,384,969 37.8 % $ 27,324 2.0 % Enterprise networking 1,139,668 30.2 1,181,938 32.2 (42,270 ) (3.6 ) Mobile and wireless 1,224,434 (1) 32.4 1,100,911 30.0 123,523 (1) 11.2 Net revenue $ 3,776,395 (1) 100.0 % $ 3,667,818 100.0 % $ 108,577 3.0 (1) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The 2007 increase in net revenue in our broadband communications target market resulted from an increase in net revenue for our products for digital TVs, offset by a decrease in net revenue from our products for digital cable set top boxes. The 2007 increase in net revenue from our mobile and wireless target market resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Bluetooth and wireless LAN product offerings, offset in part by a decrease in demand for our mobile multimedia and cellular product offerings. In addition, fourth quarter 2007 net revenue in our mobile and wireless target market included royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The 2007 decrease in net revenue from our enterprise networking target market resulted primarily from a decrease in net revenue from our controller products, offset in part by an increase in net revenue attributable to our Ethernet switch products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $222.3 million and $251.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We reversed accrued rebates in the amount of $22.4 million and $7.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit. The 2007 increase in absolute dollars of gross profit resulted primarily from the 3.0% increase in net revenue. Gross margin increased from 51.0% in 2006 to 51.5% in 2007. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in gross margin were: (i) an increase in product margin due to a decrease in product costs, (ii) a shift in product mix, (iii) royalty revenue in the amount of $31.8 million, and (iv) an increase in the reversal of rebates in the amount of $15.3 million related to unclaimed rebates. For a discussion of stock based compensation included in cost of revenue, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. Research and Development Expense Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 594,985 15.8 % $ 487,606 13.3 % $ 107,379 22.0 % Stock based compensation(1) 353,649 9.4 307,096 8.4 46,553 15.2 Development and design costs 209,980 5.6 171,526 4.7 38,454 22.4 Other 189,894 4.9 150,786 4.1 39,108 25.9 Research and development $ 1,348,508 35.7 % $ 1,117,014 30.5 % $ 231,494 20.7 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The 2007 increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from an increase of $107.4 million in personnel related expenses and an increase of $46.6 million in stock based compensation expense. In 2006 salaries and benefits included charges of $23.6 million related to the voluntary review of our equity award 66 Table of Contents practices. Excluding this charge, personnel related related expenses increased by $131.0 primarily attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in research and development activities since the end of 2006, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions. Employees engaged in research and development activities at December 31, 2007 increased to 4,676, or by 22.8%, over the previous year. We also had increases in costs related to engineering design tools and computer hardware that were attributable to the increase in headcount. In addition, facilities costs increased due to the 2007 build out and relocation of our Irvine facilities. There were increased mask and prototyping costs during 2007 due to the transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology. These costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. For a further discussion of stock based compensation included in research and development expense, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 176,152 4.7 % $ 173,562 4.7 % $ 2,590 1.5 % Stock based compensation(1) 139,533 3.7 136,679 3.7 2,854 2.1 Legal and accounting fees 100,270 2.7 124,897 3.4 (24,627 ) (19.7 ) Other 76,782 1.9 68,874 1.9 7,908 11.5 Selling, general and administrative $ 492,737 13.0 % $ 504,012 13.7 % $ (11,275 ) (2.2 ) (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The 2007 decrease in selling, general and administrative expense resulted primarily from a decrease of $24.6 million in legal and accounting fees, offset in part by an increase of $2.6 million in personnel related expenses. In 2006 salaries and benefits included charges of $23.8 million related to the voluntary review of our equity award practices. Excluding this charge, personnel related expenses increased by $26.4 million primarily attributable to an increase in the number of employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities since the end of 2006, resulting from both direct hiring and acquisitions. Employees engaged in selling, general and administrative activities increased to 1,234, or by 16.3%, over the previous year. In addition, facilities costs increased due to the 2007 build out and relocation of our Irvine facilities. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and costs of our ongoing litigation matters. In 2007 we received or recorded receivables for reimbursements in the amount of $17.2 million related to costs recoverable under certain insurance policies, which reimbursements are reflected as an offset to legal expense. In certain limited circumstances, portions of these amounts recovered from our insurance carriers may be required to be repaid. As of December 31, 2007 we had not recorded a liability in connection with these potential insurance recovery provisions. For a discussion of stock based compensation included in selling, general and administrative expense, see Stock Based Compensation Expense, below. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 67 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 139,533 136,679 $ 519,652 $ 468,364 The increase in unearned stock based compensation of $118.4 million at December 31, 2007 from the $829.9 million balance at December 31, 2006 was primarily the result of share based awards granted during 2007, including the grant of employee stock options to purchase 21.9 million shares of our common stock, the award of 12.2 million restricted stock units, and the accumulation of rights to purchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock by employees participating in our employee stock purchase program, offset in part by stock based compensation of $519.7 million expensed during 2007. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets by expense category: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 13,485 $ 10,056 Operating expense 1,027 2,347 $ 14,512 $ 12,403 In Process Research and Development IPRD totaled $15.5 million and $5.2 million for acquisitions completed in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For a description of the 2007 IPRD projects, including the valuation techniques used and significant assumptions at the acquisitions dates underlying the valuations, as well as an update on the status of such projects as of December 31, 2008, see the discussion included under Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, above. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions at the acquisition dates underlying the valuations of IPRD for our 2006 acquisition: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2006 Acquisition Sandburst 20Gbps programmable packet processor 15 % 2.0 $ 11.2 30 % $ 5.2 As of the acquisition date, an ongoing development project was in process. During 2008 this project was completed. Research and development costs to bring the product of the acquired company to technological feasibility did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisition. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion date for the IPRD project, estimated costs to complete the project, and revenue and expense projections for the product once it has entered the market. 68 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill recorded in connection with various acquisitions as required under SFAS 142 in October 2007 and 2006. Upon completion of the 2007 and 2006 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of our four reporting units, determined and identified in accordance with SFAS 142, exceeded its respective carrying value. See Notes 1 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of impairment of goodwill. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) For a discussion of activity and liability balances related to our past restructuring plans, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table presents interest and other income, net, for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 131,069 3.4 % $ 118,997 3.3 % $ 12,072 10.1 % Other income, net 3,412 0.1 3,964 0.1 (552 ) (13.9 ) Our cash and marketable securities balances decreased from $2.802 billion at December 31, 2006 to $2.404 billion at December 31, 2007, resulting principally from repurchases of our Class A common stock and cash used for acquisitions, offset in part by cash generated from operations. Although the 2007 year end balance was slightly less than the 2006 year end balance, our average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances during the year increased. The increase in interest income, net, for 2007 was the result of the overall increase in our average cash and marketable securities balances, as well as an increase in market interest rates. The weighted average interest rates earned for 2007 and 2006 were 5.12% and 4.91%, respectively. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) The following table presents the income tax provision (benefit) for 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision (benefit) $ 6,114 0.2 % $ (12,400 ) (0.3 )% $ 18,514 149.3 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2007 and 2006. Our effective tax rates were 2.8% and negative 3.4% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at rates differing from the federal tax rate and domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $6.0 million and $29.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax assets of $3.3 million and $1.8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 69 Table of Contents As a result of applying the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized a decrease of $3.9 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a $4.7 million reduction in accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2007. In addition we reclassified certain tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as related potential penalties and interest, from current liabilities to long term liabilities. Our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007 relate to various foreign jurisdictions. At December 31, 2007 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $21.6 million which included $17.8 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2007, and in total, as of December 31, 2007, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $13.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Net Gross Income Per Revenue Profit (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Fourth Quarter $ 1,126,509 $ 568,712 $ (159,215 )(1) $ (0.32 ) Third Quarter 1,298,475 679,016 164,906 (2) 0.31 Second Quarter 1,200,931 646,335 134,789 (3) 0.25 First Quarter 1,032,210 551,047 74,314 (4) 0.14 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Fourth Quarter $ 1,027,035 $ 538,813 $ 90,335 (5) $ 0.16 Third Quarter 949,959 483,989 27,760 (6) 0.05 Second Quarter 897,920 460,883 34,256 (7) 0.06 First Quarter 901,481 460,532 60,991 (8) 0.10 (1) Includes impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets of $169.4 million and IPRD of $31.5 million. (2) Includes other than temporary impairment on marketable securities of $1.8 million and loss on strategic investment of $2.5 million. (3) Includes impairment of intangible assets of $1.9 million, restructuring reversal of $1.0 million, loss on strategic investment of $1.8 million and income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of certain foreign subsidiaries or various foreign jurisdictions of $4.4 million. (4) Includes IPRD of $10.9 million and settlement costs of $15.8 million. (5) Includes gain on strategic investments of $3.0 million. (6) Includes IPRD of $5.0 million and loss on strategic investments of $2.1 million. (7) Includes IPRD of $10.2 million and income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of certain foreign subsidiaries or various foreign jurisdictions of $4.6 million. (8) Includes IPRD of $0.3 million, impairment of other intangible assets of $1.5 million, loss on strategic investments of $2.6 million and charges related to the equity award review in the amount of $3.4 million. Subsequent Events In light of the continuing deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, on January 28, 2009 our Board of Directors committed to a restructuring plan. The plan includes a reduction in our worldwide headcount of approximately 200 people, which represents approximately 3% of our global workforce. We began implementing the plan immediately and expect that it will be substantially completed later in 2009. 70 Table of Contents We expect to incur approximately $8.0 million to $10.0 million in restructuring costs related to the plan, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce. Of the total restructuring costs, approximately $2.5 million to $4.0 million is expected to be stock based compensation expense. We anticipate that we will recognize most of these charges in the first quarter of 2009, with a portion to be recognized later in 2009. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141R. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, any business combinations we engaged in were recorded and disclosed according to SFAS 141, Business Combinations, until January 1, 2009. We expect SFAS No. 141R will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate after the effective date of January 1, 2009. In April 2008 the FASB issued FSP No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets, or FSP 142 3, which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142. This pronouncement requires enhanced disclosures concerning a companys treatment of costs incurred to renew or extend the term of a recognized intangible asset. FSP 142 3 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of FSP 142 3, but do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, or SFAS 160. SFAS 160 addresses the accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest, and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 160, but do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2008 the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or SFAS 162. SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the U.S. SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following the SEC approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We currently adhere to the hierarchy of GAAP as presented in SFAS 162, and adoption is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007 the FASB ratified EITF Issue 07 1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements, or EITF 07 1. EITF 07 1 focuses on defining a collaborative arrangement as well as the accounting for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between the participants in the arrangement and third parties. The EITF concluded that both types of transactions should be reported in each participants respective income statement. EITF 07 1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. We are currently evaluating the impact of EITF 07 1, but do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 71 Table of Contents In November 2008 the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08 7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets, or EITF 08 7. EITF 08 7 applies to defensive intangible assets, which are acquired intangible assets that the acquirer does not intend to actively use but intends to hold to prevent its competitors from obtaining access to them. As these assets are separately identifiable, EITF 08 7 requires an acquiring entity to account for defensive intangible assets as a separate unit of accounting, which should be amortized to expense over the period the asset diminished in value. Defensive intangible assets must be recognized at fair value in accordance with SFAS 141R and SFAS 157. EITF 08 7 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We expect EITF 08 7 will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements when effective, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the intangible assets purchased after the effective date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, Increase 2008 2007 (Decrease) (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,034,110 $ 2,323,716 $ (289,606 ) Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 $ (995,927 ) Short term marketable securities(1) 707,477 141,728 565,749 Long term marketable securities 75,352 (75,352 ) $ 1,898,122 $ 2,403,652 $ (505,530 ) (1) Included in working capital. Our working capital and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased in 2008 primarily due to repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, net cash paid for acquisitions and other purchased intangible assets and purchases of capital equipment, offset in part by cash provided by operations. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2008 and 2007. Cash and cash equivalents decreased to $1.191 billion at December 31, 2008 from $2.187 billion at December 31, 2007 as a result of cash used in investing (primarily for net purchases of marketable securities and the purchase of the DTV Business of AMD) and financing activities (primarily for repurchases of our Class A common stock), offset in part by cash provided by operating activities. December 31, 2008 2007(1) (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 919,615 $ 825,317 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (745,382 ) 54,405 Cash used in financing activities (1,170,160 ) (851,260 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (995,927 ) $ 28,462 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 2,186,572 $ 2,158,110 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 (1) In the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2007, we increased net cash provided by operating activities and increased net cash used in investing activities by $2.6 million resulting from valuation of marketable securities to conform to the current year presentation. In 2008 our operating activities provided $919.6 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $214.8 million in net income and $826.9 million in net non cash operating expenses, offset in part by 72 Table of Contents $122.1 million in net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally a $112.2 million increase in inventory. Non cash items included in net income in 2008 consisted of depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPRD, impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets and losses on strategic investments and marketable securities. In 2007 our operating activities provided $825.3 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $213.3 million in net income, $617.0 million in net non cash operating expenses offset in part by $5.0 million in net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non cash items included in net income in 2007 included depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, IPRD, impairment of intangible assets and losses on strategic investments. Accounts receivable increased $3.3 million from $369.0 million at December 31, 2007 to $372.3 million at December 31, 2008. Our days sales outstanding decreased from 32.7 days at December 31, 2007 to 30.1 days at December 31, 2008, driven by a variation in revenue linearity. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If, in the longer term, our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. Inventories increased $134.8 million from $231.3 million at December 31, 2007 to $366.1 million at December 31, 2008 related to the decline in customer demand in the fourth quarter that occurred at a rate that was faster than we could adjust for due to our lead times with our contract manufacturers. Our inventory days on hand increased from 43.1 days at December 31, 2007 to 59.7 days at December 31, 2008. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined based upon the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing activities used cash of $745.4 million in 2008, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $491.7 million, $82.8 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts, $150.4 million in net cash paid for the acquisition of Sunext Design and the DTV business of AMD, and $20.1 million related to contingent consideration paid to former holders of Global Locate capital stock and other rights for the attainment of certain performance goals by Global Locate. Investing activities provided cash of $54.4 million in 2007, which was primarily the result of $423.8 million provided by the net proceeds from maturities of marketable securities and proceeds of $14.0 million received in connection with an escrow settlement from our acquisition of Siliquent, offset in part by the purchase of $150.4 million of capital equipment to support our operations and the build out and relocation of our facilities in Irvine, California and $233.3 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of LVL7, Octalica and Global Locate and other purchased intangible assets. Our financing activities used $1.170 billion in cash in 2008, which was primarily the result of $1.284 billion in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to our share repurchase programs and $58.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $171.9 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. Our financing activities used $851.3 million in cash in 2007, which was primarily the result of $1.140 billion in repurchases of our Class A common stock pursuant to our share repurchase programs and $69.7 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset by $358.6 million in net proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercises of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. During the three months ended December 31, 2008 we made a strategic decision to make a special one time repatriation of prior earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries in the form of a $1.5 billion dividend. Approximately $0.1 billion of this dividend represented previously taxed income that was not subject to federal tax upon distribution. We utilized approximately $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards) to offset the federal tax on the remaining 73 Table of Contents $1.4 billion of dividend income, resulting in no federal income tax expense relating to the distribution. The repatriation resulted in additional state taxes of approximately $0.8 million for 2008. From time to time our Board of Directors has authorized various programs to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under such programs, we repurchased a total of 65.2 million, 35.8 million and 7.3 million shares of Class A common stock at weighted average prices of $19.44, $32.31 and $37.53 per share, in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007, $16.1 million was not settled in cash and was included in accrued liabilities. This amount was subsequently paid in 2008. In July 2008 the Board of Directors authorized our current program to repurchase shares of Broadcoms Class A common stock having an aggregate value of up to $1.0 billion. Repurchases under the program may be made from time to time at any time during the period that commenced July 31, 2008 and continuing through and including July 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2008, $575.8 million was still authorized for repurchase under this plan. Due to the decrease in the average price of our Class A common stock in 2008 as compared to the previous year, fewer stock options were exercised by employees, and we received reduced proceeds from the exercise of stock options in 2008. The timing and number of stock option exercises and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Moreover, it is now our practice to issue a combination of restricted stock units and stock options only to certain employees and, in most cases to issue solely restricted stock units, which will reduce the number of stock options available for exercise in the future. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2008: Payment Obligations by Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 106,441 $ 88,800 $ 57,265 $ 40,502 $ 28,496 $ 101,857 $ 423,361 Inventory and related purchase obligations 198,980 198,980 Other purchase obligations 61,118 5,638 3,079 331 70,166 Restructuring liabilities 3,342 837 4,179 Unrecognized tax benefits 21,176 21,176 Total $ 391,057 $ 95,275 $ 60,344 $ 40,833 $ 28,496 $ 101,857 $ 717,862 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 2.8 million square feet. Our principal facilities have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017. In March 2007 we relocated our corporate headquarters to a new facility in Irvine, which currently consists of nine buildings with an aggregate of 0.75 million square feet. The lease agreement provides a term of ten years and two months, through May 2017. We have recently entered into an agreement to occupy a tenth building in 2010, bringing the total leased space in Irvine to 0.80 million square feet. The aggregate rent of $181.4 million for the term of these leases is included in the table above. Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the 74 Table of Contents ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other purchase commitments made in the ordinary course of business. Our restructuring liabilities represent estimated future lease and operating costs from restructured facilities, less offsetting sublease income, if any. These costs will be paid over the respective lease terms through 2010. These amounts are included in our consolidated balance sheet. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits included in the table above, we have also recorded a liability for potential penalties and interest of $13.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the exercise of employee stock options and the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments and repurchases of our Class A common stock for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, current general economic volatility, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the inability of certain of our customers who depend on credit to have access to their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, particularly in the current global economic environment, which may lead them to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; the overall levels of sales of our products, royalty revenue and gross profit margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; 75 Table of Contents required levels of research and development and other operating costs; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; volume price discounts and customer rebates; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; royalties payable by or to us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees during 2009 and possibly during future years; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. At December 31, 2008 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2008 we had $1.898 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We maintain an investment portfolio of various security holdings, types and maturities. Pursuant to SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS 157, the fair value of all of our cash equivalents and marketable securities is determined based on Level 1 inputs, which consist of quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. We place our cash investments in instruments that meet credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. With the exception of one impaired investment, at December 31, 2008 all of our marketable securities were rated AAA, Aaa, A+, A 1 or P 1 by the major credit rating agencies. We invest in U.S. Treasury and agency obligations, commercial paper, money market funds, corporate notes and bonds, time deposits, foreign notes and certificates of deposits. Our investment policy for marketable securities requires that all securities mature in three years or less, with a weighted average maturity of no longer than 18 months. We account for our investments in debt and equity instruments under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities and FASB Staff Position, or FSP, SFAS No. 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments, or SFAS 115 1. Management determines the appropriate classification of such securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such classification as of each balance sheet date. Historically we classified our cash equivalents and marketable securities as held to maturity. Effective February 2008 we reclassified our cash equivalents and marketable securities as available for sale and recorded a net unrealized gain in the amount of $0.2 million. In 2008 cash equivalents and marketable securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. We follow the guidance provided by SFAS 115 1 to assess whether our investments with unrealized loss positions are other than temporarily impaired. Realized gains and losses and declines in value judged to be other than temporary are determined based on the specific identification method and are reported in other income (expense), net, in the consolidated statements of income. The fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities is determined based on quoted market prices for those securities. In 2008 we recorded an other than temporary impairment of a marketable security of $1.8 million as other expense, net, in our consolidated statement of income. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate 76 Table of Contents securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may negatively impact our investment income. In order to assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2008, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $3.1 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in a $1.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2008 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. Current economic conditions have had widespread negative effects on the financial markets. Due to credit concerns and lack of liquidity in the short term funding markets, we have shifted a larger percentage of the portfolio to U.S. Treasury and other government securities and time deposits, which may negatively impact our investment income, particularly in the form of declining yields. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
