Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Percentage of Net Revenue Net Revenue: $6.818 billion Net Revenue: $4.490 billion Net Revenue: $4.658 billion 2 Table of Contents Broadband Communications Reportable Segment We offer manufacturers a range of broadband communications and consumer electronics SoC solutions that enable voice, video, data and multimedia services over wired and wireless networks for the home. Products Incorporating Our Solutions Broadcom Solutions Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Modems (cable, xPON, femtocell and DSL) and Residential Gateways Cable Modem Termination Systems (CMTS) and Central Office DSLAM Solutions Digital Cable, Digital Transport Adapter, Direct Broadcast Satellite, Terrestrial and IP Set Top Boxes Digital Television Blu ray Disc Players and Recorders Home Networking Solutions (including Powerline Networking) Cable modem SoCs Femtocell SoCs MPEG/AVC/VC 1 encoders and transcoders xDSL, PON and cable modem customer premises equipment and central office solutions Powerline Networking SoCs Digital cable, DBS, Terrestrial and IP set top box integrated receiver demodulators HDTV and SDTV SoCs Blu ray Disc SoCs Modems and Residential Gateways Competitive pressure among broadband providers to meet increasing consumer demand for internet video content is driving a race to provide increasing bandwidth to consumers. Broadcom offers ultra high speed modems and end to end broadband solutions to provide data, voice and video services over cable television networks, digital subscriber line (DSL) technologies and gigabit passive optical networks (GPON) to and throughout the home. Digital Cable, Direct Broadcast Satellite, Terrestrial and IP Set Top Boxes and Digital Transport Adapters In an effort to increase the number of digital services available to television viewers, features such as high definition and 3D programming, digital video recording services, internet applications and home media networks are being offered by service providers using the same high speed connections that bring customers broadband Internet and telephone access. To take advantage of these capabilities, viewers need a set top box (STB) in the home to process these functions and distribute them to TVs and other connected STBs within the home. We offer a complete digital cable TV silicon platform, comprehensive direct broadcast satellite (DBS) solutions and a family of advanced SoC solutions for the IP STB market. The highly integrated digital cable TV SoC solutions provide manufacturers with a broad range of features and capabilities for building standard STBs (for digital video broadcasting), high definition and 3D programming capable STBs, as well as high end interactive STBs supporting simultaneous viewing of television programming and Internet content. Broadcom also provides IP SoC solutions that include high definition, 3D capable, video decoder/audio processor chips and a dual channel high definition and digital video recorder chip. By leveraging our extensive investment and expertise in the STB market, we have also developed (DBS) solutions that include complete end to end chipset for receiving and displaying high definition content, and a complete satellite system solution that enables DBS providers to provide Internet access via satellite by combining the functionality of a satellite modem, a firewall router and home networking into a single chip. Digital Television Beginning in 2009, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission required that traditional terrestrial broadcast stations broadcast only in digital format and the migration to digital broadcasts continues in other markets around the world. We offer a complete turnkey digital television on a chip solution and associated software to enable digital to analog converter boxes. We also offer a complete product line that covers all digital television (DTV) markets, including a turnkey platform that allows TV manufacturers to include over the top applications, internet connectivity and customize both hardware and software designs for differentiating products based on the user interface and visual look and feel. In addition, we offer a highly integrated DTV SoC solution that, when combined with our existing satellite, cable or terrestrial demodulators, forms a complete platform for the delivery of high definition (HD) DTV. 3 Table of Contents Blu ray Disc Players and Recorders Blu ray Disc players and recorders offer substantially greater storage capacity and the ability to effectively handle the significantly higher bit rates associated with HD audio/video content. Our Blu ray Disc SoC provides integrated security features that enable manufacturers to offer Internet applications and streaming media playback. Our reference design for the development of Blu ray Disc media players includes our HD audio/video decoder chip, as well as an HD digital video system chip and a software platform that provides our customers with a wide range of integration options, including playback in 3D at 1080p resolution, picture in picture video support, HD multi channel audio, and world class BD Java performance for full support of BD Live functionality. Mobile Wireless Reportable Segment Broadcoms mobile and wireless reportable segment offers products supporting a broad range of leading edge portable devices that enable end to end wireless connectivity at home, at work and on the go. Products in this area include solutions in wireless local area networking, personal area networking, location technologies, and a comprehensive range of mobile technologies. Our portfolio of mobile and wireless products enable a broad range of portable devices including cellular handsets, personal navigation devices, tablets, PCs, wireless home routers and gateways, portable media players, gaming platforms and other wireless enabled consumer electronics and peripherals. Products Incorporating Our Solutions Broadcom Solutions Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Cellular phones Wireless enabled tablets, laptops, netbooks, and desktop computers Wireless home routers and gateways Printers Cellular and WiMax data cards MiFi Mobile Hotspots VoIP phones Handheld media devices Personal navigation devices Home gaming systems Home entertainment systems Wi Fi SoCs Bluetooth SoCs Wireless Connectivity Combo chips GPS SoCs EDGE, 3G (UMTS and HSPA) and 4G (LTE and WiMAX) baseband solutions Multimedia processors Applications processors Power management units VoIP SoCs Mobile TV SoCs NFC tags Wireless Local Area and Personal Area Networking Wi Fi/WLAN. Wireless local area networking, also known as Wi Fi or WLAN, allows devices on a local area network to communicate with each other without the use of any cables. It adds the convenience of mobility to the powerful utility provided by high speed data networks, and is a natural extension of broadband connectivity in the home, office and on the road. Wi Fi technology was first utilized in applications such as computers and routers, and is now being embedded into a number of other electronic devices such as smartphones, cameras, camcorders, printers, gaming devices, set top boxes, HDTVs, Blu ray Disc players and broadband modems. We offer a family of high performance, low power Wi Fi chipsets that support all current standards. We support Wi Fi direct across our product portfolio, allowing communication between devices without having to interact with an access point, increasing ease of use for Wi Fi and enabling us to serve increased demand for the transfer of HD content between devices. Bluetooth. The Bluetooth short range wireless networking standard is a low power wire replacement technology that enables direct connectivity among a wide variety of mainstream consumer electronic devices. We offer a complete family of Bluetooth silicon and software solutions for mobile phones, PCs, wireless headphones and headsets, HDTVs, peripherals, gaming and other applications. Our family of single chip Bluetooth devices, software applications and protocol stacks provide a complete solution that enables manufacturers to add Bluetooth functionality to almost any electronic device with a minimal amount of development time and resources. 4 Table of Contents Wireless Connectivity Combination Chips Consumers increasingly expect their mobile devices to be able to seamlessly communicate wirelessly with other electronics devices, such as TVs, PCs, printers, cellular phones, remote speakers, headsets and car stereos. At the same time, our customers are continually seeking to lower costs, increase performance, extend the battery life of their devices and bring new products to market quickly. To meet these demands, we have developed a family of combination chip (combo chip) solutions that integrate multiple discrete wireless technologies into a single chip solution. For example, we offer combo chip solutions that integrate a complete Bluetooth system, a complete Wi Fi system and a high performance FM stereo radio receiver into a single die. We also offer a combo chip solution that combines Bluetooth, GPS and an FM receiver. Global Positioning System Global Positioning System (GPS) has long been a standard feature in navigation devices and is becoming a common feature in mobile phones, tablets and personal computers. Broadcom offers standalone GPS and assisted global positioning system (A GPS) semiconductor products, software and data services. We also maintain a worldwide GPS reference network that provides assistance data to A GPS equipped chips via wireless transport, including cellular data channels and Wi Fi, which boosts performance and reduces the time required to determine a location. Cellular Baseband, Multimedia Processors and Power Management Handheld devices (such as cellular phones and tablets) and portable computers (such as netbooks and laptops) have become broadband multimedia gateways, enabling end users to wirelessly download email, view web pages, stream audio and video, play games and conduct videoconferences. The evolution of the international Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) standard to 3G and 4G technologies have enabled always on Internet applications and more efficient data transport. These capabilities enable a range of devices from smart feature phones to smartphones and tablets. We develop EDGE, 3G and 4G, LTE and WiMAX chipsets and platform solutions with the associated software. We use the same technologies to deliver cellular modem cards for use in portable computers, wireless gateway devices and embedded products. Mobile Multimedia Applications. Multimedia has become increasingly prevalent in handheld devices. To support new multimedia features, integrating video, music, camera and gaming capabilities, Broadcom offers our VideoCore line of video and multimedia processors based on a low power, high performance architecture. Unlike hard wired processor cores, VideoCore processors are built to provide customers the benefit of software flexibility and programmability, as well as low power from hardware acceleration. Our family of mobile application processors enable an array of multimedia features, including support for high megapixel digital cameras, HD video encoding and decoding, and TV signal output. As part of its cellular platform, Broadcom provides a family of power management devices that intelligently manage power consumption in mobile devices to optimize system operation and improve battery life. Voice over Internet Protocol Driven by the significant build out of the Internet and deregulation of long distance and local phone services, voice over an IP packet based network, or VoIP is stimulating dramatic changes in traditional telephone networks. Our VoIP phone silicon and software solutions integrate packet processing, voice processing and switching technologies to provide the quality of service, high fidelity and reliability necessary for enterprise telephony applications. Our portfolio also features terminal adapter VoIP solutions that enable existing analog phones to be connected to broadband modems via Ethernet. These products support residential VoIP services that are now being offered by a variety of broadband service providers. Near Field Communications Near field communications (NFC) is a very short range wireless standard that evolved from a combination of contactless technologies to enable simple connectivity and data transfer with just a touch. NFC has been adopted 5 Table of Contents for contactless payment systems and can also be implemented in a variety of consumer devices from mobile phones, tablets, and digital TVs to remote controls, wireless mice, 3D glasses and Bluetooth headsets. Broadcom has developed NFC tag solutions for original equipment manufacturers to implement low cost NFC consumer device applications in their products. Infrastructure Networking Reportable Segment Through our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment, we design and develop complete silicon and software infrastructure solutions for service providers, data centers, and enterprise and small to medium business networks. Our solutions leverage industry proven Ethernet technology to promote faster, greener and cost efficient transport and processing of voice, video, data and multimedia across both wired and wireless networks. Products Incorporating Our Solutions Broadcom Solutions Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Service provider metro equipment 3G/4G wireless infrastructures and wireless access points Switches, hubs and routers Servers Workstations Desktop and notebook computers Network interface cards LAN on motherboard applications Optical networks and dense wave division multiplexing applications Virtual private networks and security appliances Ethernet copper transceivers Ethernet controllers Ethernet switches Backplane and Optical front end physical layer devices Security processors and adapters Broadband processors Ethernet Networking Ethernet has become a ubiquitous interconnection technology for providing high performance and cost effective networking infrastructure across enterprise, service provider, data center and small and medium business (SMB) market segments. Our complete line of highly integrated, low power SoC solutions enable users to access data, voice and video from their offices, home or over wireless networks. Ethernet Switches. We offer a broad set of Ethernet switching products ranging from low cost five port switch chips to complete solutions that can be used to build systems in excess of 10 terabits of switching capacity in a single chassis. Our service provider switch portfolio enables carrier/service provider networks to support a large number of services in the wireless backhaul, access, aggregation and core of their networks. Our Data Center portfolio provides high capacity, low latency switching silicon that supports advanced protocols around virtualization and multi pathing. In addition, our SAND Ethernet switching fabric technologies provide the ability to build highly scalable flat networks supporting tens of thousands of servers. Our family of SMB Ethernet switch products are designed to support lower power modes and comply with industry standards around energy efficient Ethernet. We also offer a family of Layer 2 managed switches designed specifically for the service provider market in Asia to deliver high bandwidth content, such as multimedia, to densely populated residential and commercial buildings. For enterprise applications, our XGStm product family combines multi layer switching capabilities with wire speed Gigabit, 10 and 40 Gigabit Ethernet switching performance for enterprise business networks. Ethernet CopperTransceivers. Our high performance Ethernet transceivers are built upon a proprietary digital signal processing (DSP) communication architecture optimized for high speed network connections and support the latest standards and advanced features, such as energy efficient Ethernet, data encryption and time synchronization at one or 10 gigibits per second. Gigabit and 10 Gigabit Ethernet Controllers. Our family of Ethernet controllers offer comprehensive solutions for servers, workstations, and desktop and notebook computers, supporting multiple generations of Ethernet 6 Table of Contents technology. Gigabit and 10 Gigabit Ethernet controllers deliver high performance dual port, single chip C NIC at 1Gbps or 10 Gbps rates, without requiring external packet memory. Backplane and Optical Front End Physical Layer Devices To address increasing volumes of data traffic both in data centers and service provider networks , we offer a portfolio of 10G and 40G Ethernet transceivers, forward error correction solutions, and chips for backplanes and optical interconnect. These devices are low power solutions for very high density 10G and 40G switching solutions. We also offer 2.5G and 10G SONET/SDH/OTN transceivers that enable the development of low cost, high density optical transport equipment, enabling telecommunications and service providers to efficiently deliver data and voice traffic over existing fiber networks. Our use of the CMOS process allows substantially higher levels of integration and lower power consumption than competitive solutions. Custom Silicon Products We offer proprietary silicon devices for the LAN, WAN and PC markets that allow our customers to semi customize by integrating their own intellectual property. For example, we have developed complex mixed signal designs for customers that leverage our advanced design processes. Licensing of Intellectual Property We generate licensing revenue and related income from the licensing of our intellectual property. The vast majority of our licensing revenue and related income to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and QUALCOMM Incorporated. See detailed discussion in Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This licensing revenue and related income represented 3.3%, 4.8% and 3.7% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Reference Platforms To assist our customers in developing products, we develop reference platforms designed around our integrated circuit products that represent prototypical system level applications. These reference platforms generally include an extensive suite of software drivers, as well as protocol and application layer software. By providing reference platforms that may ultimately be incorporated into our customers end products, we assist our customers in transitioning from initial prototype designs to final production releases. We believe this enables our customers to achieve easier and faster transitions from the initial prototype designs through final production releases. We believe these reference platform designs also significantly enhance customers confidence that our products will meet their market requirements and product introduction schedules. Customers and Strategic Relationships We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers. We have also established strategic relationships with multiservice operators that provide wired and wireless communications services to consumers and businesses. Customers currently shipping wired and or wireless communications equipment and devices incorporating our products include: Alcatel Apple Cisco Dell EchoStar Hewlett Packard Huawei Technologies LG Motorola Netgear Nintendo Nokia Pace Samsung Technicolor A small number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our net revenue. Sales to our five largest customers represented 38.9%, 34.6% and 35.8% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, 7 Table of Contents respectively. In 2010, sales to Apple and Samsung represented 11.1% and 10.0% of our net revenue, respectively. In 2009, sales to Samsung represented 10.3% of our net revenue. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. We expect that our key customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2011 and in the foreseeable future. These customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel, change or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Research and Development We have assembled a large team of experienced engineers and technologists, many of whom are leaders in their particular field or discipline. As of December 31, 2010 we had 6,800 research and development employees, the majority of whom hold advanced degrees, including approximately 675 employees with PhDs. These key employees are involved in advancing our core technologies, as well as product development. Because SoC solutions benefit from the same underlying core technologies, we are able to address a wide range of communications markets with a relatively focused investment in research and development. Our research and development expense was $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts included stock based compensation expense for employees engaged in research and development of $341.7 million, $351.9 million and $358.0 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that increased IP integration and the timely introduction of new products is essential to our growth. While we intend to continue to manage our costs and expenses to attain our long term business objectives, we plan to maintain significant research and development staffing levels for the foreseeable future. We have design centers throughout the United States, including our principal design facilities in Irvine, California and Santa Clara County, California. Internationally, we have design facilities in Asia, Europe, Israel and Canada. We anticipate establishing additional design centers in the United States and in other countries. Manufacturing Wafer Fabrication We depend on four independent foundry subcontractors located in Asia to manufacture a majority of our products. Our key silicon foundries are: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation in Taiwan, GlobalFoundries, Inc. (formerly Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing) in Singapore, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation in China; and United Microelectronics Corporation in Singapore and Taiwan. By subcontracting manufacturing, we focus resources on design and test applications where we believe we have greater competitive advantages. This strategy also eliminates the high cost of owning and operating semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on independent foundry subcontractors. Most of our products are manufactured using CMOS process technology. Our products are currently fabricated on a variety of processes ranging from 500 nanometers to 40 nanometers. We generally evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. The majority of our products are currently manufactured in 65 nanometers, and we are designing most new products in 40 nanometers. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. Assembly and Test Our products are tested either at the wafer level and or packaged finished products level. Our product testing is conducted by independent foundries, and independent test subcontractors. The die are assembled into finished 8 Table of Contents products by independent assembly and package subcontractors. A majority of our test and assembly is performed by the following independent subcontractors: United Test and Assembly Center in Singapore, China and Thailand (test, assembly and packaging), Advanced Semiconductor Engineering (ASE) in China and Taiwan (test, assembly and packaging), Siliconware Precision in Taiwan (test only), Amkor in Korea, Philippines and China (assembly and packaging only), Signetics in Korea (assembly and packaging only), STATSChipPAC in Singapore, Korea, Malaysia and China (assembly and packaging only), See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on third party assembly and test subcontractors. Quality Assurance We focus on product reliability from the initial stage of the design cycle through each specific design process, including layout and production test design. Our operations and quality engineering teams closely manage the interface between manufacturing and design engineering. We prequalify each assembly and foundry subcontractor. This prequalification process consists of a series of industry standard environmental product stress tests, as well as an audit and analysis of the subcontractors quality system and manufacturing capability. We also participate in quality and reliability monitoring by reviewing electrical and parametric data from our wafer foundry and assembly subcontractors. We closely monitor wafer foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our principal independent foundries and package assembly facilities are currently ISO 9001 certified, a comprehensive International Standards Organization specified quality system acknowledgement. As part of our total quality program, we received ISO 9001 certification for our Singapore distribution facility. Environmental Management We monitor the environmental impact of our products. Our manufacturing subcontractors have registered our manufacturing flow to ISO 14000, the international standard related to environmental management. Lead free solutions in electronic components and systems are receiving increasing attention within the semiconductor industry. We believe that our products are compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. In 2008 we began managing our compliance towards the European REACH (Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals). Product Distribution The majority of our products are distributed internationally to customers through our distribution center in Singapore and a smaller portion domestically via an operations and distribution center in Irvine, California. Net product revenue derived from actual shipments to international destinations, primarily in Asia (including foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States), represented 97.2%, 94.8% and 91.8% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy is to achieve design wins with technology leaders by providing quality, state of the art products, superior engineering execution, and superior sales, field application and engineering support. We market and sell our products in the United States through a direct sales force, distributors and manufacturers representatives. The majority of our domestic sales occur through our direct sales force, which is based in offices located in California and throughout the United States. We have also engaged independent distributors, Arrow Electronics and Avnet, Inc., to service the North American and South American markets. We market and sell our products internationally through regional offices in Asia, Europe and North America, as well as through a network of independent distributors and representatives in Asia, Australia, Europe and North America. We select these independent entities based on their ability to provide effective field sales, marketing communications and technical support to our customers. All international sales to date have been in U.S. dollars. 9 Table of Contents We present revenue from independent customers by geographic area in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. We dedicate sales managers to principal customers worldwide to promote close cooperation and communication. Backlog Our sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. Due to industry practice that allows customers to cancel, change or defer orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indicator of future revenue levels. Competition The semiconductor industry in general, and wired and wireless communications markets in particular, are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and price erosion. We believe that the principal factors of competition for integrated circuit providers include: product quality and reputation product capabilities level of integration engineering execution reliability price time to market market presence standards compliance system cost intellectual property customer interface and support We believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. We compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications. We also compete with suppliers of system level and motherboard level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. This competition has resulted and will continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products in certain markets. We also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers that choose to develop their own silicon solutions. We expect to encounter continuing consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties, and may refuse to provide us with information necessary to permit the interoperability of our products with theirs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features, lower power requirements or lower costs. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for further discussion of the risks associated with competition. Seasonality An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand, and tend to have stronger sales later in the fiscal year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Our success and future product revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. However, these may not provide meaningful or adequate protection for our intellectual property. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents (up from more than 3,800 U.S. and more than 1,550 foreign patents from the prior year) and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and strategic partners, and typically control access to and distribution of product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes, develop similar technology independently, or design around our patents. As such, any rights granted under our patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. In addition, we may not be able to successfully enforce our patents against infringing products in every jurisdiction. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for further discussion of the risks associated with patents and intellectual property. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross license agreements, such as the Qualcomm Agreement. See detailed discussion in Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Moreover, because we have participated and continue to participate in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. Companies in and related to the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. We are currently engaged in litigation and may need to engage in additional litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. In addition, we are currently engaged in litigation and may engage in future litigation with parties that claim that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. Such litigation will result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a detailed description of our outstanding intellectual property litigation, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Employees As of December 31, 2010 we had 8,950 employees, including 6,800 individuals engaged in research and development, 850 engaged in sales and marketing, 550 engaged in manufacturing operations, and 750 engaged in general and administrative activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents We face intense competition. The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as new markets develop, as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our business. We expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and presences in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do, and in some cases operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We also face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. Existing or new competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition also has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in increased expenditures on research and development, declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. These factors in turn create increased pressure to consolidate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. We depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers represented 38.9%, 34.6% and 35.8% of our total net revenue for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In 2010, sales to Apple and Samsung represented 11.1% and 10.0% of our net revenue, respectively. In 2009, sales to Samsung represented 10.3% of our net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue in any period may also depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any such key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sales to certain of our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, including: agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. In addition, the majority of our licensing revenues and related income to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. Our patent license agreements with these two customers are expected to result in licensing revenue and related income of approximately $1.025 billion over a six year period. From January 2008 through December 2010, we recorded $545.6 million in licensing revenue and related income derived from Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless has ended and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into additional such arrangements in the future, or that we will be able to successfully collect the remaining payments due to us under the Qualcomm Agreement in the event of a default by Qualcomm. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, decrease in licensing revenue, significant delay in our customers product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter. Variability in the nature of our operating results may be attributed to the factors identified throughout this Risk Factors section, including: changes in economic conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; seasonality in sales of consumer and enterprise products in which our products are incorporated; our dependence on a few significant customers and or design wins for a substantial portion of our revenue; timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; changes in customer product needs and market acceptance of our products; the impact of the Internal Revenue Service review of certain of our income and employment tax returns; and competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. Many of the factors impacting our operating results are not within our control. We may fail to adjust our operations in response to changes in demand. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly modified the scope of our operations and workforce in recent years. Our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, such as research and development expenses and our highly skilled workforce. During some periods, our growth has placed a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To respond to periods of increased demand, we will be required to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Alternatively, in response to the economic downturn in the markets in the semiconductor industry and communications market, we may be required to implement restructuring actions and a number of other cost saving measures. All of these endeavors require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to adjust our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We face risks associated with our acquisition strategy. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies. The expansion of our business through acquisitions allows us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to identify or consummate future acquisitions or realize the desired benefit from these acquisitions. We face a number of challenges in the integration of acquired businesses that could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management team, including: delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired companys technologies; the loss of key personnel; lower gross margins and other financial challenges; and becoming subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Acquisitions can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, warranty or product liability exposure related to acquired assets, additional stock based compensation expense, write up of acquired inventory to fair value, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets. In addition, we may record goodwill and other purchased intangible assets in connection with an acquisition and incur impairment charges in the future. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in 13 Table of Contents future impairment analyses, are less favorable than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Economic volatility can cause extreme difficulties for our customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This unpredictability could cause our customers to reduce spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers and vendors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impact their ability to make timely payments to us. As a result, we may experience growth patterns that are different than the end demand for products, particularly during periods of high volatility. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of such events on our customers, our vendors or us. The combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a compound impact on our business. The impact of market volatility is not limited to revenue but may also affect our product gross margins and other financial metrics. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Additionally, we receive notices that challenge the validity of our patents. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or could prevent us from enforcing our intellectual property rights. We may also be required to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and or lost profits. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Any of these claims or litigation may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $15.31 and as high as $47.00 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we, and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities, have been the subject of securities class action litigation. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, most of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, often pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5 1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. As a result, sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of Broadcoms performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by sales of shares by our executive officers. We may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We engage in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our software may be derived from open source software, which is generally made available to the public by its authors and or other third parties. Open source software is often made available under licenses, which impose certain obligations in the event we distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and or license such derivative works on different terms than those customarily used to protect our intellectual property. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. Identifying unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. The initiation of litigation may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that have a stake in the outcome of the litigation proceedings. Litigation is 15 Table of Contents very expensive and may divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation and application of tax laws in jurisdictions in which we file. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, or the imposition of new or changed tax laws or regulations or new related interpretations by taxing authorities in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to and are currently engaged in examinations and tax audits. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our net operating loss and research and development tax credit carryforwards, our financial position, or our operating results. In certain foreign jurisdictions, we operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives. For instance, in Singapore we operate under tax holidays that reduce taxes on substantially all of our operating income in that jurisdiction. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. In a period of tight manufacturing capacity, our ability to meet Singaporean content in our products may be more limited, which may have adverse tax consequences. More generally, if any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated or if we fail to the meet the criteria to continue to enjoy such holidays or incentives, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We manufacture and sell complex products and may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products. We have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products. These problems could interrupt or delay sales and shipments of our products to customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to divert our resources from other development efforts. In addition, these problems could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and or lost profits. We expect that a high percentage of our future sales will come from sales of new products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. The markets for some of these products are new to us and may be immature and or unpredictable. These markets may not develop into profitable opportunities and we have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate our future revenue streams from, or the sustainability of, our new products. Our industry is dynamic and we are required to devote significant resources to research and development to remain competitive. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and we have experienced delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. We may choose to discontinue one or more products or product development programs to dedicate more resources to other products. The discontinuation of an existing or planned product may adversely affect our relationship with one or more of our customers. Our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new integrated products; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products. 16 Table of Contents If we are not able to develop and introduce new products in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. It is difficult to accurately predict demand for our semiconductor products. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel, change or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Our ability to accurately forecast customer demand is further impaired by delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. We operate in a dynamic industry and use significant resources to develop new products for existing and new markets. After we have developed a product, there is no guarantee that our customers will integrate our product into their equipment or devices and, ultimately, bring those equipment and devices incorporating our product to market. In these situations, we may never produce or deliver a significant number of our products, even after incurring substantial development expenses. From the time a customer elects to integrate our solution into their product, it is typically six to 24 months before high volume production of that product commences. After volume production begins, we cannot be assured that the equipment or devices incorporating our product will gain market acceptance. Our product demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. In the event we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, an increasing percentage of our inventory is maintained under hubbing arrangements whereby products are delivered to a customer or third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs. Under these arrangements, we do not recognize product revenue until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired under our hubbing arrangements, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product inventory and negatively impact our cash flow. We are exposed to risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented 97.2%, 94.8% and 91.8% of our product revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of countries. We intend to continue expanding our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; continuation of overseas conflicts and the risk of terrorist attacks and resulting heightened security; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; changes in taxation and tariffs; and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. 17 Table of Contents We depend on third party subcontractors to fabricate, assemble and test our products. We do not own or operate fabrication, assembly or test facilities. We rely on third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test substantially all of our semiconductor devices. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems. These issues could delay shipments of our products or increase our assembly or testing costs. In addition, the increasing capital intensity associated with fabrication in smaller process geometries may limit our diversity of suppliers. We do not have long term agreements with any of our manufacturing, assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. In the event our third party foundry subcontractors experience a disruption or limitation of manufacturing, assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing, assembly and testing services in a timely manner, or at all. Furthermore, our foundries must have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process, which could be time consuming. We could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative manufactures, assemblers or testers for our products. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. Because we rely on outside foundries, we face several significant risks in addition to those discussed above, including: a lack of guaranteed wafer supply and higher wafer prices; the limited availability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and the location of foundries in regions that are subject to earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. In addition, we are dependent on our foundry subcontractors to successfully transition to smaller geometry processes. Government regulation may adversely affect our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has broad jurisdiction in the United States over many of the devices into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable or satellite operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products in the United States. In addition, we may experience delays if a product incorporating our chips fails to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers are subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. Our business may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our co founders and their affiliates may control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2010 our co founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 11.2% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.6% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including certain mergers and consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2010 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III and Dr. Henry Samueli, beneficially owned a total of 10.1% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.2% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders. Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our share repurchase program would result in an increase in the total voting power of our co founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates, as well as other continuing shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. In January 2010, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which the Company would pay quarterly dividends on our common stock. We intend to continue to pay such dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. For example, our Board of Directors may also issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, which have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared to one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock) as well as the right to vote separately as a class. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue shares of common or preferred stock without a shareholder vote. These provisions, among others, may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease facilities in Irvine (our corporate headquarters), Sunnyvale, Santa Clara, San Jose and San Diego, California. These facilities are our principal design facilities and each includes administration, sales and marketing, 19 Table of Contents research and development and operations functions. We lease additional design facilities throughout the United States. Internationally, we lease a distribution center that includes engineering design and administrative facilities in Singapore as well as engineering design and administrative facilities in Asia, Israel, Europe and Canada. In addition, we lease various sales and marketing facilities in the United States and several other countries. We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine comprise 0.87 million square feet and have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017. We believe that the facilities under lease will be adequate for at least the next 12 months. For additional information regarding our obligations under property leases, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our Class A common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol BRCM. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market: High Low Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 47.00 $ 34.34 Third Quarter 38.47 29.90 Second Quarter 36.94 29.05 First Quarter 34.30 26.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 32.29 $ 25.76 Third Quarter 31.20 23.01 Second Quarter 27.56 19.11 First Quarter 21.49 15.31 As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 there were 1,070 and 1,168 record holders of our Class A common stock and 154 and 167 record holders of our Class B common stock, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $46.39 per share. Our Class B common stock is not publicly traded. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converts upon sale or other transfer. 21 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5 year total return attained by shareholders on Broadcom Corporations common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the SP 500 index, the PHLX Semiconductor index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our common stock and in each index on 12/31/2005 and its relative performance is tracked through 12/31/2010. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* AMONG BROADCOM CORPORATION, THE S P 500 INDEX, THE NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX AND THE PHLX SEMICONDUCTOR INDEX The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 22 Table of Contents Dividend Policy In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.08 per common share payable to holders of our common stock in each of the four quarters of 2010. In 2010 we paid $163.4 million in dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. These dividends were paid from U.S. domestic sources other than our retained earnings and are accounted for as reductions of shareholders equity. The cash dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under that policy are subject to the Boards continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2010 we issued an aggregate of 3.0 million shares of Class A common stock upon conversion of a like number of shares of Class B common stock in connection with their disposition. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A common stock at the option of the holder. The offers and sales of those securities were effected without registration in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities From time to time our Board of Directors has authorized various programs to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under such programs, we repurchased a total of 9.1 million, 15.0 million and 65.2 million shares of Class A common stock at weighted average prices of $30.86, $28.12 and $19.44 per share, in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. The maximum number of shares of our Class A common stock that may be repurchased in any one year is equal to the total number of shares issued pursuant to our equity awards in the previous year and the current year. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This program may also be complemented with an additional share repurchase program in the future. The following table presents details of our various repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2010: Approximate Dollar Total Number of Value of Shares Total Number Average Shares Purchased That May yet be of Shares Price as Part of Publicly Purchased under Period Purchased per Share Announced Plan the Plan (In thousands) (In thousands) (In thousands) October 2010 $ November 2010 December 2010 140 44.13 140 Total 140 $ 44.13 140 $ 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data Net revenue: Product revenue $ 6,589,270 $ 4,272,726 $ 4,485,239 $ 3,739,312 $ 3,667,818 Income from Qualcomm Agreement(1) 206,696 170,611 Licensing revenue(2) 22,353 46,986 172,886 37,083 Total net revenue 6,818,319 4,490,323 4,658,125 3,776,395 3,667,818 Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue(3) 3,284,213 2,210,559 2,213,015 1,832,178 1,795,565 Research and development(3) 1,762,323 1,534,918 1,497,668 1,348,508 1,117,014 Selling, general and administrative(3) 590,572 479,362 543,117 492,737 504,012 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 27,570 14,548 3,392 1,027 2,347 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 1,500 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 15,470 5,200 Charitable contribution 50,000 Total operating costs and expenses 5,736,459 4,434,251 4,485,995 3,691,420 3,424,138 Income from operations 1,081,860 56,072 172,130 84,975 243,680 Interest income, net 9,032 13,901 52,201 131,069 118,997 Other income (expense), net 6,428 2,218 (2,016 ) 3,412 3,964 Income before income taxes 1,097,320 72,191 222,315 219,456 366,641 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15,520 6,930 7,521 6,114 (12,400 ) Net income $ 1,081,800 $ 65,261 $ 214,794 $ 213,342 $ 379,041 Net income per share (basic)(4) $ 2.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.42 $ 0.39 $ 0.69 Net income per share (diluted)(4) $ 1.99 $ 0.13 $ 0.41 $ 0.37 $ 0.64 December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents and short and long term marketable securities $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,898,122 $ 2,403,652 $ 2,801,598 Working capital 2,912,311 1,765,982 2,034,110 2,323,716 2,673,087 Goodwill and purchased intangible assets, net 2,042,937 1,480,541 1,341,201 1,423,328 1,214,174 Total assets 7,944,310 5,127,242 4,393,265 4,838,193 4,876,766 Total shareholders equity 5,826,089 3,891,846 3,607,067 4,036,148 4,191,666 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009. See Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. (2) Includes royalties of $19.0 million, $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007, which was completed in March 2009. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the calculation of net income per share. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Gross Margin Data Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % 51.0 % 51.0 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 51.5 51.0 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Data on Stock Based Compensation Expense Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 $ 24,545 $ 24,997 $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 341,733 351,884 358,018 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 118,789 119,918 126,359 139,533 136,679 The tables above set forth our selected consolidated financial data. We prepared this information using the consolidated financial statements of Broadcom for the five years ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of acquisitions commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. You should read this selected consolidated financial data together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes contained in this Report and in our prior and subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as the section of this Report and our other reports entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation (including our subsidiaries, referred to collectively in this Report as Broadcom, we, our and us) is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip, or SoC, and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers in each of our reportable segments: Broadband Communications (Home), Mobile Wireless (Hand) and Infrastructure Networking (Infrastructure). Our Mobile Wireless reportable segment comprises our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity businesses. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into products used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. Our diverse product portfolio includes: Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Highly integrated solutions for the connected home, including set top boxes and media servers, residential gateways, home networking, femtocells, high definition TV platforms, Blu ray Disc players and digital video recorders (DVRs). Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Low power, high performance and highly integrated solutions powering the mobile ecosystem, including Wi Fi and Bluetooth, cellular modems, personal navigation and global positioning, near field communications, multimedia and application processing, and mobile power management solutions. Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Highly integrated solutions to carriers, service providers, enterprises, small to medium businesses and data centers for network infrastructure needs, including switches and physical layer (PHY) devices for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; switch fabric solutions; and high speed controllers. Our product revenue consists principally of sales of semiconductor devices and, to a lesser extent, software licenses and royalties, development, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our product sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our product sales occurs through distributors. Our licensing revenue and income is generated from the licensing of our intellectual property, of which the vast majority to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm Incorporated. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless ended in March 2009 and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into similar arrangements in the future. At December 31, 2010 we had deferred income of $47.1 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement. The following table details the amount of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless and income from the Qualcomm Agreement that was recognized or is scheduled to be recognized from 2008 to 2013: Recognized Scheduled to be Recognized 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ $ 170,611 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 856,413 Licensing revenue from Verizon Wireless 149,232 18,968 168,200 $ 149,232 $ 189,579 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 1,024,613 26 Table of Contents Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment or devices incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of our acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these acquisitions. Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 In 2010 our net income was $1.082 billion as compared to net income of $65.3 million in 2009, a difference of $1.017 billion. The increase in profitability was the direct result of a broad based increase in net revenue of 51.8% in 2010, as compared to 2009. In addition, our total gross margin increased 100 basis points in 2010, as compared to 2009. Other 2010 highlights include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009. We generated cash flow from operations of $1.371 billion in 2010. In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. We paid $163.4 million in dividends in 2010. In February 2010, as part of Broadcoms regular annual equity compensation review program, our Compensation Committee granted 10.1 million shares subject to equity awards, which included 2.2 million employee stock options and 7.9 million restricted stock units. At the date of grant, the amount of unearned stock based compensation expense associated with these awards was $247.6 million and was estimated to be expensed from 2010 through 2014. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset the dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. Under this program we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $32.32 per share in 2010. We repurchased an additional 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $29.75, which completed our share repurchase program announced in July 2008. In March 2010 we acquired Teknovus, Inc., or Teknovus, a leading supplier of Ethernet Passive Optical Network chipsets and software for approximately $109.3 million, exclusive of $9.2 million of cash acquired. We also assumed $14.6 million of debt which was subsequently repaid. In July 2010 we acquired Innovision Research Technology PLC, or Innovision, a near field communication, or NFC, technology company for $49.8 million, exclusive of $1.8 million of cash acquired. In November 2010 we completed a private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015. We also entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. 27 Table of Contents In November 2010 we acquired Percello Ltd., or Percello, a company that develops femtocell SoC solutions for $84.6 million, exclusive of $1.7 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $12.0 million in additional consideration to former Percello shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Percello entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.1 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Percello shareholders. We also issued 0.1 million restricted stock units to certain former employees of Percello who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $3.1 million, of which $0.2 million was recorded as goodwill, and $2.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next four years. In November 2010 we acquired Beceem Communications, Inc., or Beceem, a company that develops SoC solutions for LTE and WiMAX 4G connectivity for $301.8 million, exclusive of $11.8 million of cash acquired. We assumed Beceems equity plan and subsequently issued 0.8 million Broadcom stock options. The stock options had a fair value of $22.6 million, of which $0.7 million was recorded as goodwill and $21.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. In December 2010 we acquired Gigle Networks Inc., or Gigle, a company that develops SoC solutions for home networking over power lines for $75.8 million, exclusive of $1.4 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $8.0 million in additional consideration to former Gigle shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Gigle entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.9 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Gigle shareholders. We issued restricted stock units to certain former employees of Gigle who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $1.1 million, of which $0.1 million was recorded as goodwill, and $1.0 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. We also issued employee stock options with a fair value of $0.7 million which will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. Business Enterprise Segments The following tables present details of our reportable segments and the All Other category: Reportable Segments Broadband Mobile Infrastructure All Communications Wireless Networking Other Consolidated (In thousands) Year ended December 31, 2010 Net revenue $ 2,134,373 $ 2,889,226 $ 1,587,775 $ 206,945 $ 6,818,319 Operating income (loss) 446,556 526,177 578,182 (469,055 ) 1,081,860 Year ended December 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 1,525,193 $ 1,719,998 $ 1,055,553 $ 189,579 $ 4,490,323 Operating income (loss) 180,392 116,882 287,837 (529,039 ) 56,072 Year ended December 31, 2008 Net revenue $ 1,722,671 $ 1,528,178 $ 1,258,044 $ 149,232 $ 4,658,125 Operating income (loss) 383,582 33,974 390,293 (635,719 ) 172,130 28 Table of Contents Included in the All Other category: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 206,945 $ 189,579 $ 149,232 Stock based compensation $ 483,024 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 58,594 30,744 19,249 Amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up 9,644 9,225 2,161 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 Charitable contribution 50,000 Employer payroll tax on certain stock option exercises 12,541 4,866 3,966 Miscellaneous corporate allocation variances 40,416 (17,428 ) 21,398 Total other operating costs and expenses $ 676,000 $ 718,618 $ 784,951 Total operating loss for the All Other category $ (469,055 ) $ (529,039 ) $ (635,719 ) For additional information about our business enterprise segments, see further discussion in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Impact Net Income Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: volume of product sales and corresponding gross margin; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; stock based compensation expense; licensing and income from intellectual property; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; amortization of purchased intangible assets; cash based incentive compensation expense; litigation costs and insurance recoveries, including our directors and officers insurance settlement; settlement costs or gains; adjustments to tax reserves and the results of income tax audits; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock, dividends and acquisitions of businesses; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; charitable contributions; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; restructuring costs or reversals thereof; and gain (loss) on strategic investments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation 29 Table of Contents expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, tax contingencies, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates, assumptions or judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements that include a combination of semiconductor products and other elements, judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. We allocate the arrangement consideration based on each elements relative fair value using vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, third party evidence, or estimated selling prices, as the basis of fair value. Revenue is recognized for the accounting units when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met. For further discussion, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer or third party warehouse reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our licensing revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our total net revenue and net income. We defer revenue and income when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include 30 Table of Contents amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Income from the Qualcomm Agreement. The Qualcomm Agreement as discussed above, is a multiple element arrangement. We allocated the amount to be received under the Qualcomm Agreement amongst several elements. A gain from the settlement of litigation was immediately recognized and approximated the value of awards determined by the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining consideration was predominantly associated with the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights, as well as the settlement of all other outstanding litigation, and is being recognized over the four year performance period as a single unit of accounting. The value associated with the transfer of intellectual property rights and other elements was treated as a single unit of accounting and, based on the predominant nature of these elements, recognized them within net revenue over the contractual performance period of four years, beginning in 2009 and extending through 2013. The elements included: (i) an exchange of intellectual property rights, including in certain circumstances, a series of covenants not to assert claims of patent infringement under future patents issued within one to four years of the execution date of the agreement, (ii) the assignment of certain existing patents by Broadcom to Qualcomm with Broadcom retaining a royalty free license under these patents, and (iii) the settlement of all outstanding litigation and claims between us and Qualcomm. We consider the Qualcomm Agreement as predominantly related to the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights. This conclusion was based on (a) the amounts specifically awarded by the courts for the patents that were the subject of litigation for which appeals had been substantially exhausted and (b) the extensive nature of the rights transferred to Qualcomm, both for our existing patent portfolio and for the patents we would develop during the next one to four years. In addition, we obtained a third party valuation of the intellectual property rights. The inputs and assumptions we used in this valuation were from a market participant perspective and included projected revenue, royalty rates, estimated discount rates, useful lives and income tax rates, among others. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in our model requires significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors including the selection of industry comparables, market growth rates and other relevant factors. Changes in any number of these assumptions would have substantially changed the fair value assigned to the intellectual property rights. These inputs and assumptions represent managements best estimates at the time of the transaction. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions of revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end and when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our net revenue and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions of revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory Write Downs and Warranty Reserves. We write down the carrying value of our inventory to net realizable value for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be 31 Table of Contents impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our product gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. All share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, are recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. The fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Although we utilize the Black Scholes model, which meets established requirements, the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Prior to 2010, our dividend yield assumption excluded dividend payouts. In 2010 we began to pay quarterly dividends and included that assumption in our fair value calculations. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant less our expected dividend yield. We evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Effective January 1, 2009 in process research and development, or IPRD, and defensive assets acquired are capitalized. Prior to 2009 IPRD was expensed immediately. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization thereof. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry, (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results or (v) the abandonment of any of our acquired in process research and development projects. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management 32 Table of Contents judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction of income tax expense in the period of such realization. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. Income tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold are recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold are derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement costs. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact product gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and or our ability to settle disputes on terms acceptable to us are subject to significant uncertainty. Should we choose to pay significant sums in settling a dispute or should material legal matters be resolved against the Company, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue: Product revenue 96.7 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 3.0 3.8 Licensing revenue 0.3 1.0 3.7 Total net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue 48.2 49.2 47.5 Research and development 25.7 34.2 32.1 Selling, general and administrative 8.7 10.7 11.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.4 0.3 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 0.3 0.4 3.7 Settlement costs, net 0.8 2.7 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) 0.2 In process research and development 0.9 Charitable contribution 1.1 Total operating costs and expenses 84.1 98.8 96.3 Income from operations 15.9 1.2 3.7 Interest income, net 0.1 0.3 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 16.1 1.6 4.8 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.1 0.2 Net income 15.9 % 1.5 % 4.6 % The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Cost of product revenue 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Research and development 5.0 7.8 7.7 Selling, general and administrative 1.7 2.7 2.7 34 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 6,589,270 96.7 % $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 2,316,544 54.2 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 206,696 3.0 170,611 3.8 36,085 21.2 Licensing revenue 22,353 0.3 46,986 1.0 (24,633 ) (52.4 ) Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 3,284,213 48.2 % $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 1,073,654 48.6 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 1.9 % Total gross margin 51.8 % 50.8 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,889,139 97.1 % $ 1,748,692 96.8 % $ 140,447 8.0 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Licensing revenue 4,742 0.2 5,651 0.3 (909 ) (16.1 ) Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 955,711 49.1 % $ 871,951 48.3 % $ 83,760 9.6 Product gross margin 49.4 % 50.1 % (0.7 )% Total gross margin 50.9 % 51.7 % (0.8 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. Our product revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor devices. Our Broadband Communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our Mobile Wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our Infrastructure Networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Our licensing revenue and income from the Qualcomm Agreement is generated from the licensing of intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 2,134,373 31.3 % $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 609,180 39.9 % Mobile Wireless 2,889,226 42.4 1,719,998 38.3 1,169,228 68.0 Infrastructure Networking 1,587,775 23.3 1,055,553 23.5 532,222 50.4 All other(1) 206,945 3.0 189,579 4.2 17,366 9.2 Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into in April 2009, (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009 and (iii) other revenue from certain patent agreements, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for our wireless connectivity combo solutions, as well as the ramp of our cellular products. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. The increase in our All Other category was the result of a $36.1 million increase in income received from the Qualcomm Agreement, offset in part by a $19.0 million decrease in licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless, which was completed in March 2009. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2010 2010 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 576,966 29.7 % $ 561,519 31.1 % $ 15,447 2.8 % Mobile Wireless 907,484 46.7 797,395 44.2 110,089 13.8 Infrastructure Networking 409,431 20.9 395,429 21.8 14,002 3.5 All other(1) 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for cellular products and our wireless combo solutions. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $526.1 million, or 7.7% of net revenue and $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2010 was attributable to the increase in net revenue along with a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reversed accrued rebates of $4.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Table of Contents From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the seasonal variations in consumer products and changes in the overall economic environment. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete products and negatively impact our cash flow. For these and other reasons, our total net revenue and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. Concentration of Net Revenue Income from the Qualcomm Agreement is expected to be recognized through 2013 as follows: 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 479,107 The following table presents details of our product net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product sales through direct sales force(1) 77.6 % 78.8 % 83.6 % Product sales through distributors(2) 22.4 21.2 16.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes 7.8%, 7.1% and 6.1% of product sales maintained under hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Includes 7.9%, 8.1% and 4.4% of product sales maintained under fulfillment distributor arrangements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Apple 11.1 % * * Samsung 10.0 10.3 % * Five largest customers as a group 38.9 34.6 35.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our total net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Product revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of product revenue was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 China (exclusive of Hong Kong) 30.4 % 28.3 % 29.5 % Hong Kong 26.0 24.8 27.9 Other Asia (primarily in Singapore and Taiwan) 36.8 37.6 29.3 Europe (primarily in Sweden, Hungary, France, Romania) 2.4 2.7 2.8 Other 1.6 1.4 2.3 97.2 % 94.8 % 91.8 % 37 Table of Contents All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Factors That May Impact Net Revenue The demand for our products and the subsequent recognition of net revenue has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and distributors, to manage inventory; the timing of our distributors shipments to their customers or when products are taken by our customers under hubbing arrangements; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt/ramp our products and technologies; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; and the availability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Cost of product revenue comprises the cost of our semiconductor devices, which consists of the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, as well as royalties paid to vendors for use of their technology. Also included in cost of product revenue is the amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. Product gross margin is product revenue less cost of product revenue divided by product revenue and does not include income from the Qualcomm Agreement and revenue from the licensing of intellectual property. Total gross margin is total net revenue less cost of product revenue divided by total net revenue. Product gross margin increased from 48.3% in 2009 to 50.2% in 2010 primarily as a result of cost reductions in each of our reportable segments as we continued our transition to 40 nanometer process technology. Other factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base (ii) higher margins in our infrastructure and networking products offset by (iii) a net increase in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $7.3 million due to an increase in the provision for digital TV products. Product gross margin decreased from 50.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2010 to 49.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of (i) a net increase in warranty provisions of $10.8 million primarily related to specific claims recorded to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a significant component derived from a recent acquisition, offset in part by (ii) a reduction in the excess and obsolete inventory provision of $5.7 million, and fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base. Factors That May Impact Product and Total Gross Margin Our product and total gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; introduction of products with lower margins; the effects of competition; 38 Table of Contents the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories and their relationship to demand volatility; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and other fixed costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; our ability to advance to the next technology node faster than our competitors; licensing royalties payable by us; product warranty costs; fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets; amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our product and total gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 928,956 13.6 % $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 158,844 20.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Development and design costs 273,682 4.0 211,494 4.7 62,188 29.4 Other 217,952 3.1 201,428 4.5 16,524 8.2 Research and development $ 1,762,323 25.7 % $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 227,405 14.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 1,300 personnel; bringing total headcount to approximately 6,800 personnel. This represents a 23.6% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, and was predominantly in each of our reportable segments as a result of both organic growth and our 2010 acquisitions. Salary increases were also attributable to increased incentive compensation. Development and design costs increased due to increases in mask, prototyping, testing and engineering design tool costs stemming from our continued transition of products to 40 nanometer process technologies. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing, development and tape out of various products. We expect research and development costs to increase as a result of growth in, and diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. 39 Table of Contents We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. The majority of our new products are now designed in 40 nanometer CMOS processes, and we are preparing for the 28 nanometer process. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 240,176 3.5 % $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 45,840 23.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) Legal and accounting fees 139,795 2.1 110,205 2.5 29,590 26.8 Other 91,812 1.4 54,903 1.2 36,909 67.2 Selling, general and administrative $ 590,572 8.7 % $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 111,210 23.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 300 personnel, which represents a 23.1% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, as well as higher incentive compensation. The increase in legal and accounting fees in 2010 was primarily related to a 2009 recovery of legal fees of $91.3 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, which reduced our 2009 legal fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and prior years stock option backdating securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings and various other transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in the Other line item in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in facilities and travel expenses. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 0.3 % $ 24,545 0.5 % $ (2,043 ) (8.3 )% Research and development 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Selling, general and administrative 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) $ 483,024 7.0 % $ 496,347 11.0 % $ (13,323 ) (2.7 ) 40 Table of Contents We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards, resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. The following table presents details of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 through 2014 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2010: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Unearned stock based compensation $ 420,700 $ 252,097 $ 129,556 $ 23,329 $ $ 825,682 See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 31,024 0.5 % $ 16,196 0.4 % $ 14,828 91.6 % Other operating expenses 27,570 0.4 14,548 0.3 13,022 89.5 $ 58,594 0.9 % $ 30,744 0.7 % $ 27,850 90.6 The following table presents details of the amortization of existing purchased intangible assets, including IPRD that is currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 and thereafter. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of product revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 58,508 $ 71,915 $ 62,917 $ 48,462 $ 29,101 $ 37,251 $ 308,154 Other operating expenses 27,810 10,057 3,359 3,376 3,444 9,640 57,686 $ 86,318 $ 81,972 $ 66,276 $ 51,838 $ 32,545 $ 46,891 $ 365,840 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill in October 2010, 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology, which includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, 41 Table of Contents which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating appropriate present value techniques. Specifically, the income approach valuations included the following assumptions: Valuation Assumptions 2010 2009 2008 Discount Rate 12.0% 17.7% 12.0% 17.5% 15.0% 17.0% Perpetual Growth Rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.0% Tax 17.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk Free Rate 3.4% 4.0% 4.3% Peer Company Beta 1.26 1.52 1.24 1.69 1.83 2.50 Based on our 2010 and 2009 impairment assessments, we believe we have no at risk goodwill. At December 31, 2010 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless (which includes our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity reporting units) reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $594.9 million, $623.3 million and $447.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.0 million, $587.5 million and $259.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.8 million, $536.4 million and $259.1 million, respectively. Upon completion of the October 2010 and 2009 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit. In 2010 we recorded an impairment charge of $17.3 million related to a Sunext technology license that was acquired in 2008. In 2009 we recorded impairment charges to customer relationships, developed technology and certain other assets of $18.9 million related to the acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD. The primary factor contributing to these impairment charges was the continued reduction in our revenue outlook for these businesses, and the related decrease to the estimated cash flows indentified with the impaired assets. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the difference between the fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the Mobile Platforms reporting unit was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit at that time. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the assets and their fair values. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on this evaluation we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property and equipment of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit in the three months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The primary factors contributing to the Mobile Platforms reporting unit impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to calculate the estimated fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs (Gains) We recorded settlement costs of $52.6 million in 2010 primarily related to licensing and settlement agreements and certain employment tax items. In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions. We subsequently entered into a stipulation and agreement of settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions dated as of April 30, 2010, which provides for the claims against Broadcom and its current and former officers and directors to be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and subsequent payment was made in June 2010 into a settlement fund. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In Process Research and Development In 2010 we capitalized $55.6 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisitions of Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle. There were no identifiable IPRD assets related to the acquisition of Innovision. In 2009 we capitalized $50.9 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc., which was reclassified to developed technology in 2010 upon completion and will be amortized to cost of product revenue. Upon completion of each project, the related IPRD assets will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. If any of the projects are abandoned, we will be required to impair the related IPRD asset. We expensed $42.4 million in 2008 related to in process research and development costs related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD. In 2008 the amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition under then prevailing accounting standards as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of the IPRD for our acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance of our products. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence of and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account the expected product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. The 2008 IPRD charge included only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the technology. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as 43 Table of Contents developed technology, represented the fair values and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the valuations of IPRD at the acquisition dates for the acquisitions completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2010 Acquisitions Gigle Networks Powerline Communication Solutions 12 % 1.4 $ 9.9 18 % $ 4.8 Percello LTE/Femtocell solutions 10 % 3.2 $ 10.2 17 % $ 10.1 Beceem LTE/WiMAX 51 % 1.1 $ 32.3 22 % $ 29.3 Teknovus Ethernet Passive Optical Network (EPON) chipsets and software 11 % 0.9 $ 19.3 26 % $ 10.6 2009 Acquisitions Dune Networks High density switching line card solutions 85 % 1.0 $ 1.9 21 % $ 50.4 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 % 1.0 $ 6.9 24 % $ 31.5 As of the acquisition date, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2010 all development projects from our Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle acquisitions were still in process. IPRD will be reclassified to developed technology and amortized to cost of product revenue upon completion. We completed all other development projects related to our prior acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Charitable Contribution In April 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs, as well as a broad range of community services. In 2009 we made an unrestricted grant of $50.0 million to the Foundation upon receiving a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of the exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense for the contribution of $50.0 million in 2009. We did not make any contributions to the Foundation in 2010. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 9,032 0.1 % $ 13,901 0.3 % $ (4,869 ) (35.0 )% Other income (expense), net 6,428 0.1 2,218 0.1 4,210 189.8 Interest income, net, reflects interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances offset by interest expense on our long term debt. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains on strategic investments and foreign currency transactions. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of interest expense related to long term debt and the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009 to $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock purchase rights and proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt. The average interest rates earned in 2010 and 2009 were 0.43% and 0.63%, respectively. The decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment. The increase in other income, net was primarily the result of a gain on strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 15,520 0.2 % $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 8,590 124.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2010 and 2009. Our effective tax rates were 1.4% and 9.6% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2010 and 2009 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2010 and 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in 2009, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $11.9 million and $7.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, as a result of the May 27, 2009 and March 22, 2010 decisions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case concerning Xilinx (discussed below), we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $3 million in 2010 to reverse the approximately $3 million of related exposure previously recorded in 2009. As previously disclosed, on May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals originally held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. As a result of this May 27, 2009 decision, we reduced our gross deferred tax assets for federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and capitalized research and development costs, increased our deferred tax assets for certain tax credits, and increased our tax provision in 2009 by approximately $3 million. However, on January 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and subsequently issued a new decision in favor of Xilinx on March 22, 2010, thereby affirming the August 30, 2005 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. Consequently, during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reversed the amounts we had previously recorded in 2009 related to the courts May 27, 2009 decision. As a result, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our tax provision by approximately $3 million and adjusted certain of our gross deferred tax assets. Included in these adjustments was an increase in our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $665 million and $455 million, respectively, an increase of federal and state capitalized research and development costs of approximately $10 million each, an increase in our deferred tax assets relating to stock based compensation of approximately $65 million, and a decrease in certain tax credits of approximately $10 million. These changes in our gross deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance adjustment, and therefore did not result in any change in our net deferred tax assets or our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010. In addition to the adjustments related to the March 22, 2010 Xilinx decision, in the three months ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our federal and state net operating losses by approximately $60 million for adjustments to our intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for the years ended 2001 to 2009. This reduction to our net operating losses was fully offset by a corresponding adjustment to 45 Table of Contents the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheet and no adjustment to our income tax expense. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $16.7 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination and assessment of taxes by federal and most state tax authorities. In significant foreign jurisdictions, the 2002 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $330.0 million, $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.61, $0.44 and $0.54 for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $187.5 million which included $22.5 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. Approximately $12.3 million of the tax benefit, if recognized would be credited to shareholders equity. The remaining $152.7 million, if recognized, would not result in a tax benefit since it would be fully offset with a valuation allowance. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2010, and in total, as of December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities for potential penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. In 2010 we had a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $272.5 million relating to increases to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years primarily resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit March 22, 2010 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In addition, we had an increase in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $38.9 million primarily relating to transactions with certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380 million as of December 31, 2009. In 2010 we reversed approximately $272.5 million of this amount due to the March 22, 2010 decision in the Xilinx case as discussed above, and recorded $23.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from a 2010 change in judgment regarding certain tax accruals. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 46 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin; Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 4,485,239 96.3 % $ (212,513 ) (4.7 )% Income from Qualcomm Agreement 170,611 3.8 170,611 Licensing revenue 46,986 1.0 172,886 3.7 (125,900 ) (72.8 ) Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) Cost of product revenue(1) $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 2,213,015 47.5 % $ (2,456 ) (0.1 ) Product gross margin 48.3 % 50.7 % (2.4 )% Total gross margin 50.8 % 52.5 % (1.7 )% Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,283,434 95.6 % $ 1,194,745 95.3 % $ 88,689 7.4 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Licensing revenue 7,638 0.6 7,778 0.6 (140 ) (1.8 ) Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 630,259 46.9 % $ 615,349 49.1 % $ 14,910 2.4 Product gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 2.4 % Total gross margin 53.1 % 50.9 % 2.2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ (197,478 ) (11.5 )% Mobile Wireless 1,719,998 38.3 1,528,178 32.8 191,820 12.6 Infrastructure Networking 1,055,553 23.5 1,258,044 27.0 (202,491 ) (16.1 ) All other(1) 189,579 4.2 149,232 3.2 40,347 27.0 Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) 47 Table of Contents (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 and (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital set top boxes and digital TV products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our high definition DVD products. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the ramp in the second half of 2009 of our cellular products and wireless combo solutions, offset in part by a decrease in demand for VoIP solutions. The decrease in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from a broad based decline in demand for our controller and Ethernet switch products. In 2009 we recognized $170.6 million of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and $19.0 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless. In 2008 we recognized $149.2 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless which was completed in March 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue and $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2009 was attributable to a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We reversed accrued rebates of $10.5 million and $39.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2009 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 449,233 33.5 % $ 394,863 31.5 % $ 54,370 13.8 % Mobile Wireless 502,037 37.4 520,613 41.5 (18,576 ) (3.6 ) Infrastructure Networking 339,802 25.3 287,047 22.9 52,755 18.4 All other(1) 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The decrease in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for our Bluetooth products, due to seasonality, as certain of our customers prepared for the upcoming holiday season in three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted principally from improving customer order patterns particularly for our Ethernet switch products. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Product gross margin decreased from 50.7% in 2008 to 48.3% in 2009 primarily as a result of changes in product mix from our more profitable Infrastructure Networking products to our less profitable Mobile Wireless products. Other factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin were: (i) a net decrease in the reversal of rebates of $29.1 million related to unclaimed rebates, (ii) fixed costs being spread over a lower revenue base, offset in part by (iii) a net decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $18.8 million. During 2008 we recorded a $33.7 million provision as a result of the significant reduction in demand in the 48 Table of Contents second half of 2008, whereas the $14.9 million provision recorded during 2009 was primarily related to inventory of our DTV business. Product gross margin increased from 48.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2009 to 50.9% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) product mix, (ii) a reduction in net excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $9.5 million, offset in part by (iii) an increase in the warranty provision of $2.4 million. Research and Development Expense The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 719,922 15.5 % $ 50,190 7.0 % Stock based compensation 351,884 7.8 358,018 7.7 (6,134 ) (1.7 ) Development and design costs 211,494 4.7 211,928 4.5 (434 ) (0.2 ) Other 201,428 4.5 207,800 4.4 (6,372 ) (3.1 ) Research and development $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 37,250 2.5 The increase in salaries and benefits was the result of an increase in our incentive plan costs due primarily to the stronger than anticipated performance in relative revenue growth as compared to an identified segment of the semiconductor industry and better than anticipated cash flow from operations generated in 2009. This was offset in part by the impact of our restructuring plan in January and October 2009 and our not having an annual salary merit increase in 2009. Development and design costs were relatively flat; however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 198,411 4.3 % $ (4,075 ) (2.1 )% Stock based compensation 119,918 2.7 126,359 2.7 (6,441 ) (5.1 ) Legal and accounting fees 110,205 2.5 141,369 3.0 (31,164 ) (22.0 ) Other 54,903 1.2 76,978 1.7 (22,075 ) (28.7 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 543,117 11.7 % $ (63,755 ) (11.7 ) The decrease in legal and accounting fees related to the increase in net recoveries of legal expenses of $74.6 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, offset in part by an increase in legal fees associated with litigation related to our stock options matter. See below for further discussion of our directors and officers insurance policies. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in facility and travel and entertainment expenses. 49 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 24,545 $ 24,997 Research and development 351,884 358,018 Selling, general and administrative 119,918 126,359 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 % of total net revenue 11.1 % 10.9 % Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 16,196 $ 15,857 Other operating expenses 14,548 3,392 $ 30,744 $ 19,249 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill and other long lived assets in October 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. For a description of the 2008 impairments including the valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Settlement Costs, Net In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The 50 Table of Contents settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) In light of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, in 2009 we implemented restructuring plans that included a reduction in our worldwide headcount of 200 people and an additional 120 people related to our DTV business. These reductions in headcount were completed in 2009. We recorded $7.5 million in net restructuring costs in 2009, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce across multiple locations and functions and, to a lesser extent, the closure of one of our facilities. Included in the 2009 net restructuring expense were charges of $3.7 million related to stock based compensation expense incurred in connection with the modification of certain share based awards. In addition, we reversed restructuring costs of $4.2 million, as part of a contractual obligation due from AMD to reimburse us for certain restructuring actions taken during a stipulated post acquisition period. At December 31, 2009 our restructuring liability was $1.3 million. In Process Research and Development For a description of our 2009 and 2008 IPRD activities including our valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under In Process Research and Development for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Charitable Contribution In 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support mathematics and science programs, as well as a broad range of community services. We received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense of $50.0 million related to our unrestricted grant to the Foundation. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 13,901 0.3 % $ 52,201 1.1 % $ (38,300 ) (73.4 )% Other income (expense), net 2,218 0.1 (2,016 ) 4,234 (210.0 ) The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008 to $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, including the $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement. The average interest rates earned in 2009 and 2008 were 0.63% and 2.42%, respectively. The 2009 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the current interest rate environment (Federal Funds Rate nearly 0%) and reinvestment rates being significantly lower than in 2008. 51 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 7,521 0.2 % $ (591 ) (7.9 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2009 and 2008. Our effective tax rates were 9.6% and 3.4% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2009 and 2008 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by a $1.5 billion dividend resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of this $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings, we incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008. However, due to the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets in 2008 (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the repatriation. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in both 2009 and 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009, and a provision contained in the Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was enacted in July, 2008. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $7.6 million and $6.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009, we recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million associated with the exposure resulting from a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case involving Xilinx, Inc. as discussed below. On May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. The case is subject to further appeal. The potential impact to Broadcom, should the IRS prevail, of including such stock based compensation expenses in our research and development cost sharing arrangements would be additional income for federal and state purposes from January 1, 2001 forward, and may result in additional related federal and state income and franchise taxes. We adjusted our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, our federal and state capitalized research and development costs and our deferred tax positions, and recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million for additional federal and state income and franchise taxes to reflect this decision. We reduced our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $600.0 million and $380.0 million, respectively, and we reduced our deferred tax assets for both federal and state capitalized research and development costs by approximately $10.0 million each. Additionally, in 2009 we reduced our deferred tax asset relating to stock based compensation expenses by approximately $60.0 million, and increased our deferred tax asset for certain tax credits by approximately $10.0 million, with each of these amounts offset by a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to deferred tax assets. As a result of the expensing of share based payments since January 1, 2006, our deferred tax assets exclude certain excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation, that are components of our research and development credits, capitalized research and development, and net operating loss carryovers. If and when these tax benefits are realized, a credit is recorded to shareholders equity. The federal and state net operating losses and the capitalized research and development costs we reduced as a result of the decision in the Xilinx case represent such excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation and therefore do not result in an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. 52 Table of Contents On January 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and stated that it would reconsider the matter at a future date to be determined. In accounting for income tax uncertainties, only information that is available at our reporting date of December 31, 2009 could be considered in measuring our tax position. For details regarding the effects of subsequent 2010 decisions of the Ninth Circuit in Xilinx, see the discussion included under Provision for Income Taxes for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $11.2 million at December 31, 2009 and net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380.0 million, of which approximately $280.0 million would be credited to shareholders equity if ultimately sustained and utilized to reduce our income tax liabilities because it relates to excess deductions from employee stock options. The remaining portion of these tax benefits, approximately $100.0 million, was previously offset by a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If these tax positions are not sustained, there will be no net effect on our tax provision because of the related valuation allowance. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by federal and most state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, the 2001 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. In addition, our employment tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.44 and $0.54 for 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2009 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $400.8 million which included $117.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2009, and in total, as of December 31, 2009, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $11.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. We had a $376.9 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits relating to reductions to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years. These reductions primarily resulted from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit May 27, 2009 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Other than the possible reversal of the increases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to the decision in the Xilinx case, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Total Net Income Per Revenue (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 1,945,555 $ 266,189 (1) $ 0.47 Third Quarter 1,806,017 327,129 0.60 Second Quarter 1,604,448 278,318 0.52 First Quarter 1,462,299 210,164 0.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 1,342,746 $ 59,204 (2) $ 0.11 Third Quarter 1,254,197 84,596 0.16 Second Quarter 1,039,944 13,401 (3) 0.03 First Quarter 853,436 (91,940 ) (0.19 ) (1) Includes settlement costs of $48.8 million and an impairment of long lived assets charge of $17.3 million. (2) Includes settlement costs of $175.7 million, net of a $63.2 million recovery of legal expenses . (3) Includes impairment of long lived assets of $11.3 million, net settlement gains of $58.4 million and a charitable contribution of $50.0 million. Subsequent Events In January 2011, Broadcom and CSR plc agreed to settle all litigation and legal proceedings between the parties and their affiliates, including our subsidiary Global Locate, Inc. and CSRs subsidiary SiRF Technology, Inc. The parties have sought dismissal of their various pending actions in U.S. District Court, and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), based in Washington, D.C., and have agreed not to pursue further infringement actions against each other, or against third parties based on use of each others products, for a period of five years. We will receive an initial payment of $5.0 million and payments of a maximum $12.5 million per year for five years. In January 2011, Broadcom and Wi Lan signed a binding term sheet resolving all litigation between the two companies. The two companies are drafting a definitive settlement, release and patent license agreement, which will be finalized in February 2011. A portion of the consideration has been recognized as a settlement cost and the remainder has been allocated to intellectual property rights which will be amortized over their estimated useful life, the impact of which is not expected to be material to our operating results. In January 2011, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the existing dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share on an annual basis) and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share payable to holders of our common stock. In February 2011, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement with an Investment Bank to repurchase $300 million dollars of our common stock. The majority of the shares repurchased under the ASR program will be immediately retired and, depending on the average daily volume weighted average price of our common stock during the specified term, we may receive additional shares back at the conclusion of the program. 54 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, reached a consensus on Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements, or ASU 2009 14. ASU 2009 13 modifies the requirements that must be met for an entity to recognize revenue from the sale of a delivered item that is part of a multiple element arrangement when other items have not yet been delivered. ASU 2009 13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third party evidence, or TPE, is available for that deliverable. In the absence of VSOE or TPE of the standalone selling price for one or more delivered or undelivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, entities are required to estimate the selling prices of those elements. Overall arrangement consideration is allocated to each element (both delivered and undelivered items) based on their relative selling prices, regardless of whether those selling prices are evidenced by VSOE or TPE or are based on the entitys estimated selling price. The residual method of allocating arrangement consideration has been eliminated. ASU 2009 14 modifies the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude from its scope tangible products that contain both software and non software components that function together to deliver a products essential functionality. We adopted the provisions of these ASUs effective January 1, 2010 and they did not have a material impact on our results of operations. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, or QSPE, revises conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale (e.g., loan participations), clarifies the derecognition criteria, eliminates special guidance for guaranteed mortgage securitizations, and changes the initial measurement of a transferors interest in transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that revises analysis for identifying the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, or VIE, by replacing the previous quantitative based analysis with a framework that is based more on qualitative judgments. The new guidance requires the primary beneficiary of a VIE to be identified as the party that both (i) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) has an obligation to absorb losses or a right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that expands the interim and annual disclosure requirements of fair value measurements, including the information about movement of assets between Level 1 and 2 of the three tier fair value hierarchy established under its fair value measurement guidance. This guidance also requires separate disclosure for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs using Level 3 methodologies. Except for the detailed disclosure in the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, we adopted the relevant provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010 the FASB reached a consensus on the Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition which provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective July 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,912,311 $ 1,765,982 $ 1,146,329 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 225,330 Short term marketable securities(1) 1,035,252 532,281 502,971 Long term marketable securities 1,400,706 438,616 962,090 $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,690,391 (1) Included in working capital. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2010 and 2009 Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.622 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1.397 billion at December 31, 2009 as a result of cash provided by operating activities, the proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt and our Class A common stock, partially offset by net purchases of marketable securities, the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beceem and Gigle, repurchases of our Class A common stock and our quarterly dividend payments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,370,826 $ 986,893 $ 919,615 Cash used in investing activities (2,178,033 ) (501,357 ) (745,382 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,032,537 (279,088 ) (1,170,160 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225,330 $ 206,448 $ (995,927 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 Operating Activities In 2010 our operating activities provided $1.371 billion in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1.082 billion and net non cash operating expenses of $636.6 million offset in part by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $347.6 million, which includes increases in accounts receivable of $286.7 million, increases in inventory of $208.1 million and our $160.5 million payment of previously accrued securities litigation settlement costs. In 2009 our operating activities provided $986.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $617.4 million in net non cash operating expenses, $304.2 million in net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities (including $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement) and net income of $65.3 million. Changes in assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 included the following: Days sales outstanding increased from 35 days to 38 days driven primarily by a variation in revenue linearity, as a larger percentage of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 56 Table of Contents Inventory days on hand increased from 52 days to 57 days due to our decision to increase inventory on hand to meet the anticipated growth in the demand for our products primarily in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. Accounts payable days outstanding decreased from 63 to 58 days resulting primarily from the timing of inventory purchases and vendor payments. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined by the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing Activities Investing activities used $2.178 billion in cash in 2010, which was primarily the result of $1.466 billion in net purchases of marketable securities, $599.5 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beeceem and Gigle and $108.9 million of capital equipment purchases, mostly to support our research and development efforts. Investing activities used $501.4 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $267.5 million, $165.3 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisition of Dune Networks and $67.0 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $1.033 billion in cash in 2010. This was primarily the result of $936.3 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan and $691.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt offset in part by $280.3 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, dividends paid of $163.4 million, repayment of debt assumed in our Teknovus acquisition of $14.6 million and $136.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units. Our financing activities used $279.1 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of $421.9 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program implemented in July 2008 and $84.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $227.2 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and number of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises and purchases are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. 57 Table of Contents Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) 1.500% fixed rate notes, due 2013 $ 300,000 $ $ 300,000 2.375% fixed rate notes, due 2015 400,000 400,000 Total $ 700,000 $ $ 700,000 In November 2010 we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $700 million. These Notes consist of $300 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.500% per annum, and $400 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable in cash semi annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2011. The 2013 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.694% and the 2015 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.444% and are recorded as long term debt, net of original issue discount. The discount and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of the Notes are amortized to interest expense over their respective terms. In connection with the Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to use our reasonable commercial efforts to file with the SEC an exchange offer registration statement to issue registered notes with substantially identical terms as the Notes in exchange for any outstanding Notes, or, under certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement to register the Notes. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the exchange offer or cause the shelf registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC, in each case on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the Notes offering. If we are unable to complete our registration statement, we will be subject to interest penalties. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a specified make whole premium as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Default can be triggered by any missed interest or principal payment, breach of covenant, or in certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. The Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to grant liens on assets; enter into sale and lease back transactions; or merge, consolidate or sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants, or any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Credit Facility We entered into a credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swingline loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500 million. The credit facility matures on November 19, 2014, at which time all outstanding revolving facility loans and accrued and unpaid interest must be repaid. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. Any advances under a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR, or BBA LIBOR, plus the Applicable Rate. Any advances under a US Dollar Base Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at rates that are equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% (b) Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (c) BBA LIBOR plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the actual daily unused amount of commitments. We may also, upon the agreement of the existing lenders, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties as well as affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Financial covenants require us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.00 to 1.00. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings We had no other significant notes or borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010: Payment Obligations by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 130,788 $ 91,639 $ 76,084 $ 66,012 $ 63,623 $ 169,657 $ 597,803 Inventory and related purchase obligations 567,169 567,169 Other obligations 121,751 18,357 12,701 12,699 12,700 12,609 190,817 Long term debt 300,000 400,000 700,000 Total $ 819,708 $ 109,996 $ 388,785 $ 78,711 $ 476,323 $ 182,266 $ 2,055,789 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017 with an aggregate rent of $149.6 million (included in the table above). Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Unrecognized tax benefits were $187.5 million of which $22.5 million would result in potential cash payment of taxes and $165.0 million would result in a reduction in net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We are not including any amount related to uncertain tax positions in the table presented above because of the difficulty in making reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of settlements with the respective taxing authorities. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential tax penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Prospective Capital Needs We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the issuance of common stock through our employee stock option and purchase plans, will be 59 Table of Contents sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, repurchases of our Class A common stock and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or increase our existing credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies; the unavailability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their levels of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; the overall levels of sales of our semiconductor products, licensing revenue, income from the Qualcomm Agreement and product gross margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; payment of cash dividends; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; volume price discounts and customer rebates; intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; licensing royalties payable by us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Company manages its total portfolio to encompass a diversified pool of investment grade securities to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may continue to negatively impact our investment income. To assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $22.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.8 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2010 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in short term interest rates would not have a material impact on our revolving credit facility, which bears a floating interest rate. This sensitivity analysis assumes all other variables will remain constant in future periods. Our Senior Notes bear fixed interest rates, and therefore, would not be subject to interest rate risk. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of $2.591 billion held domestically, with the remaining balance of $1.467 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. There may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the United States. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This licensing revenue and related income represented 3.3%, 4.8% and 3.7% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Reference Platforms To assist our customers in developing products, we develop reference platforms designed around our integrated circuit products that represent prototypical system level applications. These reference platforms generally include an extensive suite of software drivers, as well as protocol and application layer software. By providing reference platforms that may ultimately be incorporated into our customers end products, we assist our customers in transitioning from initial prototype designs to final production releases. We believe this enables our customers to achieve easier and faster transitions from the initial prototype designs through final production releases. We believe these reference platform designs also significantly enhance customers confidence that our products will meet their market requirements and product introduction schedules. Customers and Strategic Relationships We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers. We have also established strategic relationships with multiservice operators that provide wired and wireless communications services to consumers and businesses. Customers currently shipping wired and or wireless communications equipment and devices incorporating our products include: Alcatel Apple Cisco Dell EchoStar Hewlett Packard Huawei Technologies LG Motorola Netgear Nintendo Nokia Pace Samsung Technicolor A small number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our net revenue. Sales to our five largest customers represented 38.9%, 34.6% and 35.8% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, 7 Table of Contents respectively. In 2010, sales to Apple and Samsung represented 11.1% and 10.0% of our net revenue, respectively. In 2009, sales to Samsung represented 10.3% of our net revenue. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. We expect that our key customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2011 and in the foreseeable future. These customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel, change or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Research and Development We have assembled a large team of experienced engineers and technologists, many of whom are leaders in their particular field or discipline. As of December 31, 2010 we had 6,800 research and development employees, the majority of whom hold advanced degrees, including approximately 675 employees with PhDs. These key employees are involved in advancing our core technologies, as well as product development. Because SoC solutions benefit from the same underlying core technologies, we are able to address a wide range of communications markets with a relatively focused investment in research and development. Our research and development expense was $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts included stock based compensation expense for employees engaged in research and development of $341.7 million, $351.9 million and $358.0 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that increased IP integration and the timely introduction of new products is essential to our growth. While we intend to continue to manage our costs and expenses to attain our long term business objectives, we plan to maintain significant research and development staffing levels for the foreseeable future. We have design centers throughout the United States, including our principal design facilities in Irvine, California and Santa Clara County, California. Internationally, we have design facilities in Asia, Europe, Israel and Canada. We anticipate establishing additional design centers in the United States and in other countries. Manufacturing Wafer Fabrication We depend on four independent foundry subcontractors located in Asia to manufacture a majority of our products. Our key silicon foundries are: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation in Taiwan, GlobalFoundries, Inc. (formerly Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing) in Singapore, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation in China; and United Microelectronics Corporation in Singapore and Taiwan. By subcontracting manufacturing, we focus resources on design and test applications where we believe we have greater competitive advantages. This strategy also eliminates the high cost of owning and operating semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on independent foundry subcontractors. Most of our products are manufactured using CMOS process technology. Our products are currently fabricated on a variety of processes ranging from 500 nanometers to 40 nanometers. We generally evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. The majority of our products are currently manufactured in 65 nanometers, and we are designing most new products in 40 nanometers. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. Assembly and Test Our products are tested either at the wafer level and or packaged finished products level. Our product testing is conducted by independent foundries, and independent test subcontractors. The die are assembled into finished 8 Table of Contents products by independent assembly and package subcontractors. A majority of our test and assembly is performed by the following independent subcontractors: United Test and Assembly Center in Singapore, China and Thailand (test, assembly and packaging), Advanced Semiconductor Engineering (ASE) in China and Taiwan (test, assembly and packaging), Siliconware Precision in Taiwan (test only), Amkor in Korea, Philippines and China (assembly and packaging only), Signetics in Korea (assembly and packaging only), STATSChipPAC in Singapore, Korea, Malaysia and China (assembly and packaging only), See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on third party assembly and test subcontractors. Quality Assurance We focus on product reliability from the initial stage of the design cycle through each specific design process, including layout and production test design. Our operations and quality engineering teams closely manage the interface between manufacturing and design engineering. We prequalify each assembly and foundry subcontractor. This prequalification process consists of a series of industry standard environmental product stress tests, as well as an audit and analysis of the subcontractors quality system and manufacturing capability. We also participate in quality and reliability monitoring by reviewing electrical and parametric data from our wafer foundry and assembly subcontractors. We closely monitor wafer foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our principal independent foundries and package assembly facilities are currently ISO 9001 certified, a comprehensive International Standards Organization specified quality system acknowledgement. As part of our total quality program, we received ISO 9001 certification for our Singapore distribution facility. Environmental Management We monitor the environmental impact of our products. Our manufacturing subcontractors have registered our manufacturing flow to ISO 14000, the international standard related to environmental management. Lead free solutions in electronic components and systems are receiving increasing attention within the semiconductor industry. We believe that our products are compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. In 2008 we began managing our compliance towards the European REACH (Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals). Product Distribution The majority of our products are distributed internationally to customers through our distribution center in Singapore and a smaller portion domestically via an operations and distribution center in Irvine, California. Net product revenue derived from actual shipments to international destinations, primarily in Asia (including foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States), represented 97.2%, 94.8% and 91.8% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy is to achieve design wins with technology leaders by providing quality, state of the art products, superior engineering execution, and superior sales, field application and engineering support. We market and sell our products in the United States through a direct sales force, distributors and manufacturers representatives. The majority of our domestic sales occur through our direct sales force, which is based in offices located in California and throughout the United States. We have also engaged independent distributors, Arrow Electronics and Avnet, Inc., to service the North American and South American markets. We market and sell our products internationally through regional offices in Asia, Europe and North America, as well as through a network of independent distributors and representatives in Asia, Australia, Europe and North America. We select these independent entities based on their ability to provide effective field sales, marketing communications and technical support to our customers. All international sales to date have been in U.S. dollars. 9 Table of Contents We present revenue from independent customers by geographic area in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. We dedicate sales managers to principal customers worldwide to promote close cooperation and communication. Backlog Our sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. Due to industry practice that allows customers to cancel, change or defer orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indicator of future revenue levels. Competition The semiconductor industry in general, and wired and wireless communications markets in particular, are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and price erosion. We believe that the principal factors of competition for integrated circuit providers include: product quality and reputation product capabilities level of integration engineering execution reliability price time to market market presence standards compliance system cost intellectual property customer interface and support We believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. We compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications. We also compete with suppliers of system level and motherboard level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. This competition has resulted and will continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products in certain markets. We also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers that choose to develop their own silicon solutions. We expect to encounter continuing consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties, and may refuse to provide us with information necessary to permit the interoperability of our products with theirs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features, lower power requirements or lower costs. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for further discussion of the risks associated with competition. Seasonality An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand, and tend to have stronger sales later in the fiscal year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Our success and future product revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. However, these may not provide meaningful or adequate protection for our intellectual property. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents (up from more than 3,800 U.S. and more than 1,550 foreign patents from the prior year) and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and strategic partners, and typically control access to and distribution of product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes, develop similar technology independently, or design around our patents. As such, any rights granted under our patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. In addition, we may not be able to successfully enforce our patents against infringing products in every jurisdiction. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report for further discussion of the risks associated with patents and intellectual property. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross license agreements, such as the Qualcomm Agreement. See detailed discussion in Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Moreover, because we have participated and continue to participate in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. Companies in and related to the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. We are currently engaged in litigation and may need to engage in additional litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. In addition, we are currently engaged in litigation and may engage in future litigation with parties that claim that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. Such litigation will result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a detailed description of our outstanding intellectual property litigation, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Employees As of December 31, 2010 we had 8,950 employees, including 6,800 individuals engaged in research and development, 850 engaged in sales and marketing, 550 engaged in manufacturing operations, and 750 engaged in general and administrative activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents We face intense competition. The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as new markets develop, as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our business. We expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and presences in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do, and in some cases operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We also face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. Existing or new competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition also has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in increased expenditures on research and development, declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. These factors in turn create increased pressure to consolidate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. We depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers represented 38.9%, 34.6% and 35.8% of our total net revenue for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In 2010, sales to Apple and Samsung represented 11.1% and 10.0% of our net revenue, respectively. In 2009, sales to Samsung represented 10.3% of our net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue in any period may also depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any such key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sales to certain of our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, including: agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. In addition, the majority of our licensing revenues and related income to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. Our patent license agreements with these two customers are expected to result in licensing revenue and related income of approximately $1.025 billion over a six year period. From January 2008 through December 2010, we recorded $545.6 million in licensing revenue and related income derived from Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless has ended and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into additional such arrangements in the future, or that we will be able to successfully collect the remaining payments due to us under the Qualcomm Agreement in the event of a default by Qualcomm. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, decrease in licensing revenue, significant delay in our customers product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter. Variability in the nature of our operating results may be attributed to the factors identified throughout this Risk Factors section, including: changes in economic conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; seasonality in sales of consumer and enterprise products in which our products are incorporated; our dependence on a few significant customers and or design wins for a substantial portion of our revenue; timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; changes in customer product needs and market acceptance of our products; the impact of the Internal Revenue Service review of certain of our income and employment tax returns; and competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. Many of the factors impacting our operating results are not within our control. We may fail to adjust our operations in response to changes in demand. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly modified the scope of our operations and workforce in recent years. Our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, such as research and development expenses and our highly skilled workforce. During some periods, our growth has placed a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To respond to periods of increased demand, we will be required to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Alternatively, in response to the economic downturn in the markets in the semiconductor industry and communications market, we may be required to implement restructuring actions and a number of other cost saving measures. All of these endeavors require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to adjust our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We face risks associated with our acquisition strategy. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies. The expansion of our business through acquisitions allows us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to identify or consummate future acquisitions or realize the desired benefit from these acquisitions. We face a number of challenges in the integration of acquired businesses that could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management team, including: delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired companys technologies; the loss of key personnel; lower gross margins and other financial challenges; and becoming subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Acquisitions can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, warranty or product liability exposure related to acquired assets, additional stock based compensation expense, write up of acquired inventory to fair value, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets. In addition, we may record goodwill and other purchased intangible assets in connection with an acquisition and incur impairment charges in the future. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in 13 Table of Contents future impairment analyses, are less favorable than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Economic volatility can cause extreme difficulties for our customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This unpredictability could cause our customers to reduce spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers and vendors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impact their ability to make timely payments to us. As a result, we may experience growth patterns that are different than the end demand for products, particularly during periods of high volatility. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of such events on our customers, our vendors or us. The combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a compound impact on our business. The impact of market volatility is not limited to revenue but may also affect our product gross margins and other financial metrics. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Additionally, we receive notices that challenge the validity of our patents. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or could prevent us from enforcing our intellectual property rights. We may also be required to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and or lost profits. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Any of these claims or litigation may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $15.31 and as high as $47.00 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we, and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities, have been the subject of securities class action litigation. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, most of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, often pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5 1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. As a result, sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of Broadcoms performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by sales of shares by our executive officers. We may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We engage in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our software may be derived from open source software, which is generally made available to the public by its authors and or other third parties. Open source software is often made available under licenses, which impose certain obligations in the event we distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and or license such derivative works on different terms than those customarily used to protect our intellectual property. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. Identifying unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. The initiation of litigation may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that have a stake in the outcome of the litigation proceedings. Litigation is 15 Table of Contents very expensive and may divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation and application of tax laws in jurisdictions in which we file. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, or the imposition of new or changed tax laws or regulations or new related interpretations by taxing authorities in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to and are currently engaged in examinations and tax audits. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our net operating loss and research and development tax credit carryforwards, our financial position, or our operating results. In certain foreign jurisdictions, we operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives. For instance, in Singapore we operate under tax holidays that reduce taxes on substantially all of our operating income in that jurisdiction. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. In a period of tight manufacturing capacity, our ability to meet Singaporean content in our products may be more limited, which may have adverse tax consequences. More generally, if any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated or if we fail to the meet the criteria to continue to enjoy such holidays or incentives, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We manufacture and sell complex products and may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products. We have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products. These problems could interrupt or delay sales and shipments of our products to customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to divert our resources from other development efforts. In addition, these problems could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and or lost profits. We expect that a high percentage of our future sales will come from sales of new products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. The markets for some of these products are new to us and may be immature and or unpredictable. These markets may not develop into profitable opportunities and we have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate our future revenue streams from, or the sustainability of, our new products. Our industry is dynamic and we are required to devote significant resources to research and development to remain competitive. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and we have experienced delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. We may choose to discontinue one or more products or product development programs to dedicate more resources to other products. The discontinuation of an existing or planned product may adversely affect our relationship with one or more of our customers. Our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new integrated products; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products. 16 Table of Contents If we are not able to develop and introduce new products in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. It is difficult to accurately predict demand for our semiconductor products. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel, change or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Our ability to accurately forecast customer demand is further impaired by delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. We operate in a dynamic industry and use significant resources to develop new products for existing and new markets. After we have developed a product, there is no guarantee that our customers will integrate our product into their equipment or devices and, ultimately, bring those equipment and devices incorporating our product to market. In these situations, we may never produce or deliver a significant number of our products, even after incurring substantial development expenses. From the time a customer elects to integrate our solution into their product, it is typically six to 24 months before high volume production of that product commences. After volume production begins, we cannot be assured that the equipment or devices incorporating our product will gain market acceptance. Our product demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. In the event we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, an increasing percentage of our inventory is maintained under hubbing arrangements whereby products are delivered to a customer or third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs. Under these arrangements, we do not recognize product revenue until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired under our hubbing arrangements, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product inventory and negatively impact our cash flow. We are exposed to risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented 97.2%, 94.8% and 91.8% of our product revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of countries. We intend to continue expanding our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; continuation of overseas conflicts and the risk of terrorist attacks and resulting heightened security; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; changes in taxation and tariffs; and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. 17 Table of Contents We depend on third party subcontractors to fabricate, assemble and test our products. We do not own or operate fabrication, assembly or test facilities. We rely on third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test substantially all of our semiconductor devices. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems. These issues could delay shipments of our products or increase our assembly or testing costs. In addition, the increasing capital intensity associated with fabrication in smaller process geometries may limit our diversity of suppliers. We do not have long term agreements with any of our manufacturing, assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. In the event our third party foundry subcontractors experience a disruption or limitation of manufacturing, assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing, assembly and testing services in a timely manner, or at all. Furthermore, our foundries must have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process, which could be time consuming. We could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative manufactures, assemblers or testers for our products. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. Because we rely on outside foundries, we face several significant risks in addition to those discussed above, including: a lack of guaranteed wafer supply and higher wafer prices; the limited availability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and the location of foundries in regions that are subject to earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. In addition, we are dependent on our foundry subcontractors to successfully transition to smaller geometry processes. Government regulation may adversely affect our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has broad jurisdiction in the United States over many of the devices into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable or satellite operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products in the United States. In addition, we may experience delays if a product incorporating our chips fails to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers are subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. Our business may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our co founders and their affiliates may control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2010 our co founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 11.2% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.6% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including certain mergers and consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2010 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III and Dr. Henry Samueli, beneficially owned a total of 10.1% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.2% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders. Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our share repurchase program would result in an increase in the total voting power of our co founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates, as well as other continuing shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. In January 2010, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which the Company would pay quarterly dividends on our common stock. We intend to continue to pay such dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. For example, our Board of Directors may also issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, which have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared to one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock) as well as the right to vote separately as a class. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue shares of common or preferred stock without a shareholder vote. These provisions, among others, may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease facilities in Irvine (our corporate headquarters), Sunnyvale, Santa Clara, San Jose and San Diego, California. These facilities are our principal design facilities and each includes administration, sales and marketing, 19 Table of Contents research and development and operations functions. We lease additional design facilities throughout the United States. Internationally, we lease a distribution center that includes engineering design and administrative facilities in Singapore as well as engineering design and administrative facilities in Asia, Israel, Europe and Canada. In addition, we lease various sales and marketing facilities in the United States and several other countries. We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine comprise 0.87 million square feet and have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017. We believe that the facilities under lease will be adequate for at least the next 12 months. For additional information regarding our obligations under property leases, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our Class A common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol BRCM. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market: High Low Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 47.00 $ 34.34 Third Quarter 38.47 29.90 Second Quarter 36.94 29.05 First Quarter 34.30 26.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 32.29 $ 25.76 Third Quarter 31.20 23.01 Second Quarter 27.56 19.11 First Quarter 21.49 15.31 As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 there were 1,070 and 1,168 record holders of our Class A common stock and 154 and 167 record holders of our Class B common stock, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $46.39 per share. Our Class B common stock is not publicly traded. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converts upon sale or other transfer. 21 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5 year total return attained by shareholders on Broadcom Corporations common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the SP 500 index, the PHLX Semiconductor index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our common stock and in each index on 12/31/2005 and its relative performance is tracked through 12/31/2010. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* AMONG BROADCOM CORPORATION, THE S P 500 INDEX, THE NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX AND THE PHLX SEMICONDUCTOR INDEX The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 22 Table of Contents Dividend Policy In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.08 per common share payable to holders of our common stock in each of the four quarters of 2010. In 2010 we paid $163.4 million in dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. These dividends were paid from U.S. domestic sources other than our retained earnings and are accounted for as reductions of shareholders equity. The cash dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under that policy are subject to the Boards continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2010 we issued an aggregate of 3.0 million shares of Class A common stock upon conversion of a like number of shares of Class B common stock in connection with their disposition. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A common stock at the option of the holder. The offers and sales of those securities were effected without registration in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities From time to time our Board of Directors has authorized various programs to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under such programs, we repurchased a total of 9.1 million, 15.0 million and 65.2 million shares of Class A common stock at weighted average prices of $30.86, $28.12 and $19.44 per share, in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. The maximum number of shares of our Class A common stock that may be repurchased in any one year is equal to the total number of shares issued pursuant to our equity awards in the previous year and the current year. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This program may also be complemented with an additional share repurchase program in the future. The following table presents details of our various repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2010: Approximate Dollar Total Number of Value of Shares Total Number Average Shares Purchased That May yet be of Shares Price as Part of Publicly Purchased under Period Purchased per Share Announced Plan the Plan (In thousands) (In thousands) (In thousands) October 2010 $ November 2010 December 2010 140 44.13 140 Total 140 $ 44.13 140 $ 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data Net revenue: Product revenue $ 6,589,270 $ 4,272,726 $ 4,485,239 $ 3,739,312 $ 3,667,818 Income from Qualcomm Agreement(1) 206,696 170,611 Licensing revenue(2) 22,353 46,986 172,886 37,083 Total net revenue 6,818,319 4,490,323 4,658,125 3,776,395 3,667,818 Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue(3) 3,284,213 2,210,559 2,213,015 1,832,178 1,795,565 Research and development(3) 1,762,323 1,534,918 1,497,668 1,348,508 1,117,014 Selling, general and administrative(3) 590,572 479,362 543,117 492,737 504,012 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 27,570 14,548 3,392 1,027 2,347 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 1,500 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 15,470 5,200 Charitable contribution 50,000 Total operating costs and expenses 5,736,459 4,434,251 4,485,995 3,691,420 3,424,138 Income from operations 1,081,860 56,072 172,130 84,975 243,680 Interest income, net 9,032 13,901 52,201 131,069 118,997 Other income (expense), net 6,428 2,218 (2,016 ) 3,412 3,964 Income before income taxes 1,097,320 72,191 222,315 219,456 366,641 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15,520 6,930 7,521 6,114 (12,400 ) Net income $ 1,081,800 $ 65,261 $ 214,794 $ 213,342 $ 379,041 Net income per share (basic)(4) $ 2.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.42 $ 0.39 $ 0.69 Net income per share (diluted)(4) $ 1.99 $ 0.13 $ 0.41 $ 0.37 $ 0.64 December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents and short and long term marketable securities $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,898,122 $ 2,403,652 $ 2,801,598 Working capital 2,912,311 1,765,982 2,034,110 2,323,716 2,673,087 Goodwill and purchased intangible assets, net 2,042,937 1,480,541 1,341,201 1,423,328 1,214,174 Total assets 7,944,310 5,127,242 4,393,265 4,838,193 4,876,766 Total shareholders equity 5,826,089 3,891,846 3,607,067 4,036,148 4,191,666 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009. See Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. (2) Includes royalties of $19.0 million, $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007, which was completed in March 2009. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the calculation of net income per share. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Gross Margin Data Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % 51.0 % 51.0 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 51.5 51.0 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Data on Stock Based Compensation Expense Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 $ 24,545 $ 24,997 $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 341,733 351,884 358,018 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 118,789 119,918 126,359 139,533 136,679 The tables above set forth our selected consolidated financial data. We prepared this information using the consolidated financial statements of Broadcom for the five years ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of acquisitions commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. You should read this selected consolidated financial data together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes contained in this Report and in our prior and subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as the section of this Report and our other reports entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation (including our subsidiaries, referred to collectively in this Report as Broadcom, we, our and us) is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip, or SoC, and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers in each of our reportable segments: Broadband Communications (Home), Mobile Wireless (Hand) and Infrastructure Networking (Infrastructure). Our Mobile Wireless reportable segment comprises our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity businesses. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into products used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. Our diverse product portfolio includes: Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Highly integrated solutions for the connected home, including set top boxes and media servers, residential gateways, home networking, femtocells, high definition TV platforms, Blu ray Disc players and digital video recorders (DVRs). Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Low power, high performance and highly integrated solutions powering the mobile ecosystem, including Wi Fi and Bluetooth, cellular modems, personal navigation and global positioning, near field communications, multimedia and application processing, and mobile power management solutions. Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Highly integrated solutions to carriers, service providers, enterprises, small to medium businesses and data centers for network infrastructure needs, including switches and physical layer (PHY) devices for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; switch fabric solutions; and high speed controllers. Our product revenue consists principally of sales of semiconductor devices and, to a lesser extent, software licenses and royalties, development, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our product sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our product sales occurs through distributors. Our licensing revenue and income is generated from the licensing of our intellectual property, of which the vast majority to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm Incorporated. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless ended in March 2009 and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into similar arrangements in the future. At December 31, 2010 we had deferred income of $47.1 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement. The following table details the amount of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless and income from the Qualcomm Agreement that was recognized or is scheduled to be recognized from 2008 to 2013: Recognized Scheduled to be Recognized 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ $ 170,611 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 856,413 Licensing revenue from Verizon Wireless 149,232 18,968 168,200 $ 149,232 $ 189,579 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 1,024,613 26 Table of Contents Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment or devices incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of our acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these acquisitions. Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 In 2010 our net income was $1.082 billion as compared to net income of $65.3 million in 2009, a difference of $1.017 billion. The increase in profitability was the direct result of a broad based increase in net revenue of 51.8% in 2010, as compared to 2009. In addition, our total gross margin increased 100 basis points in 2010, as compared to 2009. Other 2010 highlights include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009. We generated cash flow from operations of $1.371 billion in 2010. In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. We paid $163.4 million in dividends in 2010. In February 2010, as part of Broadcoms regular annual equity compensation review program, our Compensation Committee granted 10.1 million shares subject to equity awards, which included 2.2 million employee stock options and 7.9 million restricted stock units. At the date of grant, the amount of unearned stock based compensation expense associated with these awards was $247.6 million and was estimated to be expensed from 2010 through 2014. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset the dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. Under this program we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $32.32 per share in 2010. We repurchased an additional 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $29.75, which completed our share repurchase program announced in July 2008. In March 2010 we acquired Teknovus, Inc., or Teknovus, a leading supplier of Ethernet Passive Optical Network chipsets and software for approximately $109.3 million, exclusive of $9.2 million of cash acquired. We also assumed $14.6 million of debt which was subsequently repaid. In July 2010 we acquired Innovision Research Technology PLC, or Innovision, a near field communication, or NFC, technology company for $49.8 million, exclusive of $1.8 million of cash acquired. In November 2010 we completed a private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015. We also entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. 27 Table of Contents In November 2010 we acquired Percello Ltd., or Percello, a company that develops femtocell SoC solutions for $84.6 million, exclusive of $1.7 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $12.0 million in additional consideration to former Percello shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Percello entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.1 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Percello shareholders. We also issued 0.1 million restricted stock units to certain former employees of Percello who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $3.1 million, of which $0.2 million was recorded as goodwill, and $2.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next four years. In November 2010 we acquired Beceem Communications, Inc., or Beceem, a company that develops SoC solutions for LTE and WiMAX 4G connectivity for $301.8 million, exclusive of $11.8 million of cash acquired. We assumed Beceems equity plan and subsequently issued 0.8 million Broadcom stock options. The stock options had a fair value of $22.6 million, of which $0.7 million was recorded as goodwill and $21.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. In December 2010 we acquired Gigle Networks Inc., or Gigle, a company that develops SoC solutions for home networking over power lines for $75.8 million, exclusive of $1.4 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $8.0 million in additional consideration to former Gigle shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Gigle entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.9 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Gigle shareholders. We issued restricted stock units to certain former employees of Gigle who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $1.1 million, of which $0.1 million was recorded as goodwill, and $1.0 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. We also issued employee stock options with a fair value of $0.7 million which will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. Business Enterprise Segments The following tables present details of our reportable segments and the All Other category: Reportable Segments Broadband Mobile Infrastructure All Communications Wireless Networking Other Consolidated (In thousands) Year ended December 31, 2010 Net revenue $ 2,134,373 $ 2,889,226 $ 1,587,775 $ 206,945 $ 6,818,319 Operating income (loss) 446,556 526,177 578,182 (469,055 ) 1,081,860 Year ended December 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 1,525,193 $ 1,719,998 $ 1,055,553 $ 189,579 $ 4,490,323 Operating income (loss) 180,392 116,882 287,837 (529,039 ) 56,072 Year ended December 31, 2008 Net revenue $ 1,722,671 $ 1,528,178 $ 1,258,044 $ 149,232 $ 4,658,125 Operating income (loss) 383,582 33,974 390,293 (635,719 ) 172,130 28 Table of Contents Included in the All Other category: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 206,945 $ 189,579 $ 149,232 Stock based compensation $ 483,024 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 58,594 30,744 19,249 Amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up 9,644 9,225 2,161 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 Charitable contribution 50,000 Employer payroll tax on certain stock option exercises 12,541 4,866 3,966 Miscellaneous corporate allocation variances 40,416 (17,428 ) 21,398 Total other operating costs and expenses $ 676,000 $ 718,618 $ 784,951 Total operating loss for the All Other category $ (469,055 ) $ (529,039 ) $ (635,719 ) For additional information about our business enterprise segments, see further discussion in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Impact Net Income Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: volume of product sales and corresponding gross margin; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; stock based compensation expense; licensing and income from intellectual property; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; amortization of purchased intangible assets; cash based incentive compensation expense; litigation costs and insurance recoveries, including our directors and officers insurance settlement; settlement costs or gains; adjustments to tax reserves and the results of income tax audits; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock, dividends and acquisitions of businesses; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; charitable contributions; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; restructuring costs or reversals thereof; and gain (loss) on strategic investments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation 29 Table of Contents expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, tax contingencies, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates, assumptions or judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements that include a combination of semiconductor products and other elements, judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. We allocate the arrangement consideration based on each elements relative fair value using vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, third party evidence, or estimated selling prices, as the basis of fair value. Revenue is recognized for the accounting units when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met. For further discussion, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer or third party warehouse reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our licensing revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our total net revenue and net income. We defer revenue and income when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include 30 Table of Contents amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Income from the Qualcomm Agreement. The Qualcomm Agreement as discussed above, is a multiple element arrangement. We allocated the amount to be received under the Qualcomm Agreement amongst several elements. A gain from the settlement of litigation was immediately recognized and approximated the value of awards determined by the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining consideration was predominantly associated with the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights, as well as the settlement of all other outstanding litigation, and is being recognized over the four year performance period as a single unit of accounting. The value associated with the transfer of intellectual property rights and other elements was treated as a single unit of accounting and, based on the predominant nature of these elements, recognized them within net revenue over the contractual performance period of four years, beginning in 2009 and extending through 2013. The elements included: (i) an exchange of intellectual property rights, including in certain circumstances, a series of covenants not to assert claims of patent infringement under future patents issued within one to four years of the execution date of the agreement, (ii) the assignment of certain existing patents by Broadcom to Qualcomm with Broadcom retaining a royalty free license under these patents, and (iii) the settlement of all outstanding litigation and claims between us and Qualcomm. We consider the Qualcomm Agreement as predominantly related to the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights. This conclusion was based on (a) the amounts specifically awarded by the courts for the patents that were the subject of litigation for which appeals had been substantially exhausted and (b) the extensive nature of the rights transferred to Qualcomm, both for our existing patent portfolio and for the patents we would develop during the next one to four years. In addition, we obtained a third party valuation of the intellectual property rights. The inputs and assumptions we used in this valuation were from a market participant perspective and included projected revenue, royalty rates, estimated discount rates, useful lives and income tax rates, among others. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in our model requires significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors including the selection of industry comparables, market growth rates and other relevant factors. Changes in any number of these assumptions would have substantially changed the fair value assigned to the intellectual property rights. These inputs and assumptions represent managements best estimates at the time of the transaction. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions of revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end and when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our net revenue and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions of revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory Write Downs and Warranty Reserves. We write down the carrying value of our inventory to net realizable value for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be 31 Table of Contents impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our product gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. All share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, are recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. The fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Although we utilize the Black Scholes model, which meets established requirements, the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Prior to 2010, our dividend yield assumption excluded dividend payouts. In 2010 we began to pay quarterly dividends and included that assumption in our fair value calculations. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant less our expected dividend yield. We evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Effective January 1, 2009 in process research and development, or IPRD, and defensive assets acquired are capitalized. Prior to 2009 IPRD was expensed immediately. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization thereof. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry, (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results or (v) the abandonment of any of our acquired in process research and development projects. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management 32 Table of Contents judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction of income tax expense in the period of such realization. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. Income tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold are recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold are derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement costs. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact product gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and or our ability to settle disputes on terms acceptable to us are subject to significant uncertainty. Should we choose to pay significant sums in settling a dispute or should material legal matters be resolved against the Company, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue: Product revenue 96.7 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 3.0 3.8 Licensing revenue 0.3 1.0 3.7 Total net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue 48.2 49.2 47.5 Research and development 25.7 34.2 32.1 Selling, general and administrative 8.7 10.7 11.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.4 0.3 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 0.3 0.4 3.7 Settlement costs, net 0.8 2.7 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) 0.2 In process research and development 0.9 Charitable contribution 1.1 Total operating costs and expenses 84.1 98.8 96.3 Income from operations 15.9 1.2 3.7 Interest income, net 0.1 0.3 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 16.1 1.6 4.8 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.1 0.2 Net income 15.9 % 1.5 % 4.6 % The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Cost of product revenue 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Research and development 5.0 7.8 7.7 Selling, general and administrative 1.7 2.7 2.7 34 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 6,589,270 96.7 % $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 2,316,544 54.2 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 206,696 3.0 170,611 3.8 36,085 21.2 Licensing revenue 22,353 0.3 46,986 1.0 (24,633 ) (52.4 ) Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 3,284,213 48.2 % $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 1,073,654 48.6 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 1.9 % Total gross margin 51.8 % 50.8 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,889,139 97.1 % $ 1,748,692 96.8 % $ 140,447 8.0 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Licensing revenue 4,742 0.2 5,651 0.3 (909 ) (16.1 ) Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 955,711 49.1 % $ 871,951 48.3 % $ 83,760 9.6 Product gross margin 49.4 % 50.1 % (0.7 )% Total gross margin 50.9 % 51.7 % (0.8 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. Our product revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor devices. Our Broadband Communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our Mobile Wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our Infrastructure Networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Our licensing revenue and income from the Qualcomm Agreement is generated from the licensing of intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 2,134,373 31.3 % $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 609,180 39.9 % Mobile Wireless 2,889,226 42.4 1,719,998 38.3 1,169,228 68.0 Infrastructure Networking 1,587,775 23.3 1,055,553 23.5 532,222 50.4 All other(1) 206,945 3.0 189,579 4.2 17,366 9.2 Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into in April 2009, (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009 and (iii) other revenue from certain patent agreements, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for our wireless connectivity combo solutions, as well as the ramp of our cellular products. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. The increase in our All Other category was the result of a $36.1 million increase in income received from the Qualcomm Agreement, offset in part by a $19.0 million decrease in licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless, which was completed in March 2009. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2010 2010 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 576,966 29.7 % $ 561,519 31.1 % $ 15,447 2.8 % Mobile Wireless 907,484 46.7 797,395 44.2 110,089 13.8 Infrastructure Networking 409,431 20.9 395,429 21.8 14,002 3.5 All other(1) 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for cellular products and our wireless combo solutions. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $526.1 million, or 7.7% of net revenue and $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2010 was attributable to the increase in net revenue along with a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reversed accrued rebates of $4.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Table of Contents From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the seasonal variations in consumer products and changes in the overall economic environment. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete products and negatively impact our cash flow. For these and other reasons, our total net revenue and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. Concentration of Net Revenue Income from the Qualcomm Agreement is expected to be recognized through 2013 as follows: 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 479,107 The following table presents details of our product net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product sales through direct sales force(1) 77.6 % 78.8 % 83.6 % Product sales through distributors(2) 22.4 21.2 16.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes 7.8%, 7.1% and 6.1% of product sales maintained under hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Includes 7.9%, 8.1% and 4.4% of product sales maintained under fulfillment distributor arrangements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Apple 11.1 % * * Samsung 10.0 10.3 % * Five largest customers as a group 38.9 34.6 35.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our total net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Product revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of product revenue was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 China (exclusive of Hong Kong) 30.4 % 28.3 % 29.5 % Hong Kong 26.0 24.8 27.9 Other Asia (primarily in Singapore and Taiwan) 36.8 37.6 29.3 Europe (primarily in Sweden, Hungary, France, Romania) 2.4 2.7 2.8 Other 1.6 1.4 2.3 97.2 % 94.8 % 91.8 % 37 Table of Contents All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Factors That May Impact Net Revenue The demand for our products and the subsequent recognition of net revenue has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and distributors, to manage inventory; the timing of our distributors shipments to their customers or when products are taken by our customers under hubbing arrangements; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt/ramp our products and technologies; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; and the availability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Cost of product revenue comprises the cost of our semiconductor devices, which consists of the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, as well as royalties paid to vendors for use of their technology. Also included in cost of product revenue is the amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. Product gross margin is product revenue less cost of product revenue divided by product revenue and does not include income from the Qualcomm Agreement and revenue from the licensing of intellectual property. Total gross margin is total net revenue less cost of product revenue divided by total net revenue. Product gross margin increased from 48.3% in 2009 to 50.2% in 2010 primarily as a result of cost reductions in each of our reportable segments as we continued our transition to 40 nanometer process technology. Other factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base (ii) higher margins in our infrastructure and networking products offset by (iii) a net increase in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $7.3 million due to an increase in the provision for digital TV products. Product gross margin decreased from 50.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2010 to 49.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of (i) a net increase in warranty provisions of $10.8 million primarily related to specific claims recorded to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a significant component derived from a recent acquisition, offset in part by (ii) a reduction in the excess and obsolete inventory provision of $5.7 million, and fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base. Factors That May Impact Product and Total Gross Margin Our product and total gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; introduction of products with lower margins; the effects of competition; 38 Table of Contents the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories and their relationship to demand volatility; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and other fixed costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; our ability to advance to the next technology node faster than our competitors; licensing royalties payable by us; product warranty costs; fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets; amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our product and total gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 928,956 13.6 % $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 158,844 20.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Development and design costs 273,682 4.0 211,494 4.7 62,188 29.4 Other 217,952 3.1 201,428 4.5 16,524 8.2 Research and development $ 1,762,323 25.7 % $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 227,405 14.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 1,300 personnel; bringing total headcount to approximately 6,800 personnel. This represents a 23.6% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, and was predominantly in each of our reportable segments as a result of both organic growth and our 2010 acquisitions. Salary increases were also attributable to increased incentive compensation. Development and design costs increased due to increases in mask, prototyping, testing and engineering design tool costs stemming from our continued transition of products to 40 nanometer process technologies. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing, development and tape out of various products. We expect research and development costs to increase as a result of growth in, and diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. 39 Table of Contents We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. The majority of our new products are now designed in 40 nanometer CMOS processes, and we are preparing for the 28 nanometer process. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 240,176 3.5 % $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 45,840 23.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) Legal and accounting fees 139,795 2.1 110,205 2.5 29,590 26.8 Other 91,812 1.4 54,903 1.2 36,909 67.2 Selling, general and administrative $ 590,572 8.7 % $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 111,210 23.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 300 personnel, which represents a 23.1% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, as well as higher incentive compensation. The increase in legal and accounting fees in 2010 was primarily related to a 2009 recovery of legal fees of $91.3 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, which reduced our 2009 legal fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and prior years stock option backdating securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings and various other transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in the Other line item in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in facilities and travel expenses. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 0.3 % $ 24,545 0.5 % $ (2,043 ) (8.3 )% Research and development 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Selling, general and administrative 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) $ 483,024 7.0 % $ 496,347 11.0 % $ (13,323 ) (2.7 ) 40 Table of Contents We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards, resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. The following table presents details of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 through 2014 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2010: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Unearned stock based compensation $ 420,700 $ 252,097 $ 129,556 $ 23,329 $ $ 825,682 See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 31,024 0.5 % $ 16,196 0.4 % $ 14,828 91.6 % Other operating expenses 27,570 0.4 14,548 0.3 13,022 89.5 $ 58,594 0.9 % $ 30,744 0.7 % $ 27,850 90.6 The following table presents details of the amortization of existing purchased intangible assets, including IPRD that is currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 and thereafter. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of product revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 58,508 $ 71,915 $ 62,917 $ 48,462 $ 29,101 $ 37,251 $ 308,154 Other operating expenses 27,810 10,057 3,359 3,376 3,444 9,640 57,686 $ 86,318 $ 81,972 $ 66,276 $ 51,838 $ 32,545 $ 46,891 $ 365,840 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill in October 2010, 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology, which includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, 41 Table of Contents which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating appropriate present value techniques. Specifically, the income approach valuations included the following assumptions: Valuation Assumptions 2010 2009 2008 Discount Rate 12.0% 17.7% 12.0% 17.5% 15.0% 17.0% Perpetual Growth Rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.0% Tax 17.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk Free Rate 3.4% 4.0% 4.3% Peer Company Beta 1.26 1.52 1.24 1.69 1.83 2.50 Based on our 2010 and 2009 impairment assessments, we believe we have no at risk goodwill. At December 31, 2010 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless (which includes our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity reporting units) reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $594.9 million, $623.3 million and $447.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.0 million, $587.5 million and $259.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.8 million, $536.4 million and $259.1 million, respectively. Upon completion of the October 2010 and 2009 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit. In 2010 we recorded an impairment charge of $17.3 million related to a Sunext technology license that was acquired in 2008. In 2009 we recorded impairment charges to customer relationships, developed technology and certain other assets of $18.9 million related to the acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD. The primary factor contributing to these impairment charges was the continued reduction in our revenue outlook for these businesses, and the related decrease to the estimated cash flows indentified with the impaired assets. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the difference between the fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the Mobile Platforms reporting unit was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit at that time. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the assets and their fair values. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on this evaluation we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property and equipment of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit in the three months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The primary factors contributing to the Mobile Platforms reporting unit impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to calculate the estimated fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs (Gains) We recorded settlement costs of $52.6 million in 2010 primarily related to licensing and settlement agreements and certain employment tax items. In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions. We subsequently entered into a stipulation and agreement of settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions dated as of April 30, 2010, which provides for the claims against Broadcom and its current and former officers and directors to be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and subsequent payment was made in June 2010 into a settlement fund. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In Process Research and Development In 2010 we capitalized $55.6 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisitions of Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle. There were no identifiable IPRD assets related to the acquisition of Innovision. In 2009 we capitalized $50.9 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc., which was reclassified to developed technology in 2010 upon completion and will be amortized to cost of product revenue. Upon completion of each project, the related IPRD assets will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. If any of the projects are abandoned, we will be required to impair the related IPRD asset. We expensed $42.4 million in 2008 related to in process research and development costs related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD. In 2008 the amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition under then prevailing accounting standards as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of the IPRD for our acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance of our products. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence of and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account the expected product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. The 2008 IPRD charge included only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the technology. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as 43 Table of Contents developed technology, represented the fair values and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the valuations of IPRD at the acquisition dates for the acquisitions completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2010 Acquisitions Gigle Networks Powerline Communication Solutions 12 % 1.4 $ 9.9 18 % $ 4.8 Percello LTE/Femtocell solutions 10 % 3.2 $ 10.2 17 % $ 10.1 Beceem LTE/WiMAX 51 % 1.1 $ 32.3 22 % $ 29.3 Teknovus Ethernet Passive Optical Network (EPON) chipsets and software 11 % 0.9 $ 19.3 26 % $ 10.6 2009 Acquisitions Dune Networks High density switching line card solutions 85 % 1.0 $ 1.9 21 % $ 50.4 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 % 1.0 $ 6.9 24 % $ 31.5 As of the acquisition date, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2010 all development projects from our Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle acquisitions were still in process. IPRD will be reclassified to developed technology and amortized to cost of product revenue upon completion. We completed all other development projects related to our prior acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Charitable Contribution In April 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs, as well as a broad range of community services. In 2009 we made an unrestricted grant of $50.0 million to the Foundation upon receiving a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of the exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense for the contribution of $50.0 million in 2009. We did not make any contributions to the Foundation in 2010. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 9,032 0.1 % $ 13,901 0.3 % $ (4,869 ) (35.0 )% Other income (expense), net 6,428 0.1 2,218 0.1 4,210 189.8 Interest income, net, reflects interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances offset by interest expense on our long term debt. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains on strategic investments and foreign currency transactions. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of interest expense related to long term debt and the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009 to $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock purchase rights and proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt. The average interest rates earned in 2010 and 2009 were 0.43% and 0.63%, respectively. The decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment. The increase in other income, net was primarily the result of a gain on strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 15,520 0.2 % $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 8,590 124.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2010 and 2009. Our effective tax rates were 1.4% and 9.6% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2010 and 2009 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2010 and 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in 2009, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $11.9 million and $7.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, as a result of the May 27, 2009 and March 22, 2010 decisions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case concerning Xilinx (discussed below), we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $3 million in 2010 to reverse the approximately $3 million of related exposure previously recorded in 2009. As previously disclosed, on May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals originally held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. As a result of this May 27, 2009 decision, we reduced our gross deferred tax assets for federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and capitalized research and development costs, increased our deferred tax assets for certain tax credits, and increased our tax provision in 2009 by approximately $3 million. However, on January 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and subsequently issued a new decision in favor of Xilinx on March 22, 2010, thereby affirming the August 30, 2005 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. Consequently, during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reversed the amounts we had previously recorded in 2009 related to the courts May 27, 2009 decision. As a result, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our tax provision by approximately $3 million and adjusted certain of our gross deferred tax assets. Included in these adjustments was an increase in our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $665 million and $455 million, respectively, an increase of federal and state capitalized research and development costs of approximately $10 million each, an increase in our deferred tax assets relating to stock based compensation of approximately $65 million, and a decrease in certain tax credits of approximately $10 million. These changes in our gross deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance adjustment, and therefore did not result in any change in our net deferred tax assets or our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010. In addition to the adjustments related to the March 22, 2010 Xilinx decision, in the three months ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our federal and state net operating losses by approximately $60 million for adjustments to our intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for the years ended 2001 to 2009. This reduction to our net operating losses was fully offset by a corresponding adjustment to 45 Table of Contents the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheet and no adjustment to our income tax expense. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $16.7 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination and assessment of taxes by federal and most state tax authorities. In significant foreign jurisdictions, the 2002 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $330.0 million, $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.61, $0.44 and $0.54 for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $187.5 million which included $22.5 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. Approximately $12.3 million of the tax benefit, if recognized would be credited to shareholders equity. The remaining $152.7 million, if recognized, would not result in a tax benefit since it would be fully offset with a valuation allowance. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2010, and in total, as of December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities for potential penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. In 2010 we had a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $272.5 million relating to increases to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years primarily resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit March 22, 2010 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In addition, we had an increase in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $38.9 million primarily relating to transactions with certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380 million as of December 31, 2009. In 2010 we reversed approximately $272.5 million of this amount due to the March 22, 2010 decision in the Xilinx case as discussed above, and recorded $23.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from a 2010 change in judgment regarding certain tax accruals. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 46 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin; Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 4,485,239 96.3 % $ (212,513 ) (4.7 )% Income from Qualcomm Agreement 170,611 3.8 170,611 Licensing revenue 46,986 1.0 172,886 3.7 (125,900 ) (72.8 ) Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) Cost of product revenue(1) $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 2,213,015 47.5 % $ (2,456 ) (0.1 ) Product gross margin 48.3 % 50.7 % (2.4 )% Total gross margin 50.8 % 52.5 % (1.7 )% Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,283,434 95.6 % $ 1,194,745 95.3 % $ 88,689 7.4 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Licensing revenue 7,638 0.6 7,778 0.6 (140 ) (1.8 ) Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 630,259 46.9 % $ 615,349 49.1 % $ 14,910 2.4 Product gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 2.4 % Total gross margin 53.1 % 50.9 % 2.2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ (197,478 ) (11.5 )% Mobile Wireless 1,719,998 38.3 1,528,178 32.8 191,820 12.6 Infrastructure Networking 1,055,553 23.5 1,258,044 27.0 (202,491 ) (16.1 ) All other(1) 189,579 4.2 149,232 3.2 40,347 27.0 Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) 47 Table of Contents (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 and (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital set top boxes and digital TV products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our high definition DVD products. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the ramp in the second half of 2009 of our cellular products and wireless combo solutions, offset in part by a decrease in demand for VoIP solutions. The decrease in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from a broad based decline in demand for our controller and Ethernet switch products. In 2009 we recognized $170.6 million of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and $19.0 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless. In 2008 we recognized $149.2 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless which was completed in March 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue and $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2009 was attributable to a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We reversed accrued rebates of $10.5 million and $39.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2009 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 449,233 33.5 % $ 394,863 31.5 % $ 54,370 13.8 % Mobile Wireless 502,037 37.4 520,613 41.5 (18,576 ) (3.6 ) Infrastructure Networking 339,802 25.3 287,047 22.9 52,755 18.4 All other(1) 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The decrease in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for our Bluetooth products, due to seasonality, as certain of our customers prepared for the upcoming holiday season in three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted principally from improving customer order patterns particularly for our Ethernet switch products. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Product gross margin decreased from 50.7% in 2008 to 48.3% in 2009 primarily as a result of changes in product mix from our more profitable Infrastructure Networking products to our less profitable Mobile Wireless products. Other factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin were: (i) a net decrease in the reversal of rebates of $29.1 million related to unclaimed rebates, (ii) fixed costs being spread over a lower revenue base, offset in part by (iii) a net decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $18.8 million. During 2008 we recorded a $33.7 million provision as a result of the significant reduction in demand in the 48 Table of Contents second half of 2008, whereas the $14.9 million provision recorded during 2009 was primarily related to inventory of our DTV business. Product gross margin increased from 48.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2009 to 50.9% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) product mix, (ii) a reduction in net excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $9.5 million, offset in part by (iii) an increase in the warranty provision of $2.4 million. Research and Development Expense The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 719,922 15.5 % $ 50,190 7.0 % Stock based compensation 351,884 7.8 358,018 7.7 (6,134 ) (1.7 ) Development and design costs 211,494 4.7 211,928 4.5 (434 ) (0.2 ) Other 201,428 4.5 207,800 4.4 (6,372 ) (3.1 ) Research and development $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 37,250 2.5 The increase in salaries and benefits was the result of an increase in our incentive plan costs due primarily to the stronger than anticipated performance in relative revenue growth as compared to an identified segment of the semiconductor industry and better than anticipated cash flow from operations generated in 2009. This was offset in part by the impact of our restructuring plan in January and October 2009 and our not having an annual salary merit increase in 2009. Development and design costs were relatively flat; however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 198,411 4.3 % $ (4,075 ) (2.1 )% Stock based compensation 119,918 2.7 126,359 2.7 (6,441 ) (5.1 ) Legal and accounting fees 110,205 2.5 141,369 3.0 (31,164 ) (22.0 ) Other 54,903 1.2 76,978 1.7 (22,075 ) (28.7 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 543,117 11.7 % $ (63,755 ) (11.7 ) The decrease in legal and accounting fees related to the increase in net recoveries of legal expenses of $74.6 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, offset in part by an increase in legal fees associated with litigation related to our stock options matter. See below for further discussion of our directors and officers insurance policies. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in facility and travel and entertainment expenses. 49 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 24,545 $ 24,997 Research and development 351,884 358,018 Selling, general and administrative 119,918 126,359 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 % of total net revenue 11.1 % 10.9 % Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 16,196 $ 15,857 Other operating expenses 14,548 3,392 $ 30,744 $ 19,249 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill and other long lived assets in October 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. For a description of the 2008 impairments including the valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Settlement Costs, Net In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The 50 Table of Contents settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) In light of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, in 2009 we implemented restructuring plans that included a reduction in our worldwide headcount of 200 people and an additional 120 people related to our DTV business. These reductions in headcount were completed in 2009. We recorded $7.5 million in net restructuring costs in 2009, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce across multiple locations and functions and, to a lesser extent, the closure of one of our facilities. Included in the 2009 net restructuring expense were charges of $3.7 million related to stock based compensation expense incurred in connection with the modification of certain share based awards. In addition, we reversed restructuring costs of $4.2 million, as part of a contractual obligation due from AMD to reimburse us for certain restructuring actions taken during a stipulated post acquisition period. At December 31, 2009 our restructuring liability was $1.3 million. In Process Research and Development For a description of our 2009 and 2008 IPRD activities including our valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under In Process Research and Development for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Charitable Contribution In 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support mathematics and science programs, as well as a broad range of community services. We received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense of $50.0 million related to our unrestricted grant to the Foundation. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 13,901 0.3 % $ 52,201 1.1 % $ (38,300 ) (73.4 )% Other income (expense), net 2,218 0.1 (2,016 ) 4,234 (210.0 ) The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008 to $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, including the $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement. The average interest rates earned in 2009 and 2008 were 0.63% and 2.42%, respectively. The 2009 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the current interest rate environment (Federal Funds Rate nearly 0%) and reinvestment rates being significantly lower than in 2008. 51 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 7,521 0.2 % $ (591 ) (7.9 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2009 and 2008. Our effective tax rates were 9.6% and 3.4% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2009 and 2008 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by a $1.5 billion dividend resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of this $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings, we incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008. However, due to the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets in 2008 (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the repatriation. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in both 2009 and 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009, and a provision contained in the Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was enacted in July, 2008. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $7.6 million and $6.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009, we recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million associated with the exposure resulting from a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case involving Xilinx, Inc. as discussed below. On May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. The case is subject to further appeal. The potential impact to Broadcom, should the IRS prevail, of including such stock based compensation expenses in our research and development cost sharing arrangements would be additional income for federal and state purposes from January 1, 2001 forward, and may result in additional related federal and state income and franchise taxes. We adjusted our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, our federal and state capitalized research and development costs and our deferred tax positions, and recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million for additional federal and state income and franchise taxes to reflect this decision. We reduced our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $600.0 million and $380.0 million, respectively, and we reduced our deferred tax assets for both federal and state capitalized research and development costs by approximately $10.0 million each. Additionally, in 2009 we reduced our deferred tax asset relating to stock based compensation expenses by approximately $60.0 million, and increased our deferred tax asset for certain tax credits by approximately $10.0 million, with each of these amounts offset by a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to deferred tax assets. As a result of the expensing of share based payments since January 1, 2006, our deferred tax assets exclude certain excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation, that are components of our research and development credits, capitalized research and development, and net operating loss carryovers. If and when these tax benefits are realized, a credit is recorded to shareholders equity. The federal and state net operating losses and the capitalized research and development costs we reduced as a result of the decision in the Xilinx case represent such excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation and therefore do not result in an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. 52 Table of Contents On January 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and stated that it would reconsider the matter at a future date to be determined. In accounting for income tax uncertainties, only information that is available at our reporting date of December 31, 2009 could be considered in measuring our tax position. For details regarding the effects of subsequent 2010 decisions of the Ninth Circuit in Xilinx, see the discussion included under Provision for Income Taxes for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $11.2 million at December 31, 2009 and net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380.0 million, of which approximately $280.0 million would be credited to shareholders equity if ultimately sustained and utilized to reduce our income tax liabilities because it relates to excess deductions from employee stock options. The remaining portion of these tax benefits, approximately $100.0 million, was previously offset by a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If these tax positions are not sustained, there will be no net effect on our tax provision because of the related valuation allowance. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by federal and most state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, the 2001 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. In addition, our employment tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.44 and $0.54 for 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2009 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $400.8 million which included $117.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2009, and in total, as of December 31, 2009, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $11.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. We had a $376.9 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits relating to reductions to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years. These reductions primarily resulted from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit May 27, 2009 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Other than the possible reversal of the increases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to the decision in the Xilinx case, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Total Net Income Per Revenue (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 1,945,555 $ 266,189 (1) $ 0.47 Third Quarter 1,806,017 327,129 0.60 Second Quarter 1,604,448 278,318 0.52 First Quarter 1,462,299 210,164 0.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 1,342,746 $ 59,204 (2) $ 0.11 Third Quarter 1,254,197 84,596 0.16 Second Quarter 1,039,944 13,401 (3) 0.03 First Quarter 853,436 (91,940 ) (0.19 ) (1) Includes settlement costs of $48.8 million and an impairment of long lived assets charge of $17.3 million. (2) Includes settlement costs of $175.7 million, net of a $63.2 million recovery of legal expenses . (3) Includes impairment of long lived assets of $11.3 million, net settlement gains of $58.4 million and a charitable contribution of $50.0 million. Subsequent Events In January 2011, Broadcom and CSR plc agreed to settle all litigation and legal proceedings between the parties and their affiliates, including our subsidiary Global Locate, Inc. and CSRs subsidiary SiRF Technology, Inc. The parties have sought dismissal of their various pending actions in U.S. District Court, and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), based in Washington, D.C., and have agreed not to pursue further infringement actions against each other, or against third parties based on use of each others products, for a period of five years. We will receive an initial payment of $5.0 million and payments of a maximum $12.5 million per year for five years. In January 2011, Broadcom and Wi Lan signed a binding term sheet resolving all litigation between the two companies. The two companies are drafting a definitive settlement, release and patent license agreement, which will be finalized in February 2011. A portion of the consideration has been recognized as a settlement cost and the remainder has been allocated to intellectual property rights which will be amortized over their estimated useful life, the impact of which is not expected to be material to our operating results. In January 2011, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the existing dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share on an annual basis) and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share payable to holders of our common stock. In February 2011, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement with an Investment Bank to repurchase $300 million dollars of our common stock. The majority of the shares repurchased under the ASR program will be immediately retired and, depending on the average daily volume weighted average price of our common stock during the specified term, we may receive additional shares back at the conclusion of the program. 54 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, reached a consensus on Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements, or ASU 2009 14. ASU 2009 13 modifies the requirements that must be met for an entity to recognize revenue from the sale of a delivered item that is part of a multiple element arrangement when other items have not yet been delivered. ASU 2009 13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third party evidence, or TPE, is available for that deliverable. In the absence of VSOE or TPE of the standalone selling price for one or more delivered or undelivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, entities are required to estimate the selling prices of those elements. Overall arrangement consideration is allocated to each element (both delivered and undelivered items) based on their relative selling prices, regardless of whether those selling prices are evidenced by VSOE or TPE or are based on the entitys estimated selling price. The residual method of allocating arrangement consideration has been eliminated. ASU 2009 14 modifies the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude from its scope tangible products that contain both software and non software components that function together to deliver a products essential functionality. We adopted the provisions of these ASUs effective January 1, 2010 and they did not have a material impact on our results of operations. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, or QSPE, revises conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale (e.g., loan participations), clarifies the derecognition criteria, eliminates special guidance for guaranteed mortgage securitizations, and changes the initial measurement of a transferors interest in transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that revises analysis for identifying the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, or VIE, by replacing the previous quantitative based analysis with a framework that is based more on qualitative judgments. The new guidance requires the primary beneficiary of a VIE to be identified as the party that both (i) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) has an obligation to absorb losses or a right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that expands the interim and annual disclosure requirements of fair value measurements, including the information about movement of assets between Level 1 and 2 of the three tier fair value hierarchy established under its fair value measurement guidance. This guidance also requires separate disclosure for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs using Level 3 methodologies. Except for the detailed disclosure in the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, we adopted the relevant provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010 the FASB reached a consensus on the Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition which provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective July 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,912,311 $ 1,765,982 $ 1,146,329 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 225,330 Short term marketable securities(1) 1,035,252 532,281 502,971 Long term marketable securities 1,400,706 438,616 962,090 $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,690,391 (1) Included in working capital. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2010 and 2009 Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.622 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1.397 billion at December 31, 2009 as a result of cash provided by operating activities, the proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt and our Class A common stock, partially offset by net purchases of marketable securities, the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beceem and Gigle, repurchases of our Class A common stock and our quarterly dividend payments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,370,826 $ 986,893 $ 919,615 Cash used in investing activities (2,178,033 ) (501,357 ) (745,382 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,032,537 (279,088 ) (1,170,160 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225,330 $ 206,448 $ (995,927 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 Operating Activities In 2010 our operating activities provided $1.371 billion in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1.082 billion and net non cash operating expenses of $636.6 million offset in part by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $347.6 million, which includes increases in accounts receivable of $286.7 million, increases in inventory of $208.1 million and our $160.5 million payment of previously accrued securities litigation settlement costs. In 2009 our operating activities provided $986.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $617.4 million in net non cash operating expenses, $304.2 million in net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities (including $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement) and net income of $65.3 million. Changes in assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 included the following: Days sales outstanding increased from 35 days to 38 days driven primarily by a variation in revenue linearity, as a larger percentage of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 56 Table of Contents Inventory days on hand increased from 52 days to 57 days due to our decision to increase inventory on hand to meet the anticipated growth in the demand for our products primarily in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. Accounts payable days outstanding decreased from 63 to 58 days resulting primarily from the timing of inventory purchases and vendor payments. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined by the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing Activities Investing activities used $2.178 billion in cash in 2010, which was primarily the result of $1.466 billion in net purchases of marketable securities, $599.5 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beeceem and Gigle and $108.9 million of capital equipment purchases, mostly to support our research and development efforts. Investing activities used $501.4 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $267.5 million, $165.3 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisition of Dune Networks and $67.0 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $1.033 billion in cash in 2010. This was primarily the result of $936.3 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan and $691.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt offset in part by $280.3 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, dividends paid of $163.4 million, repayment of debt assumed in our Teknovus acquisition of $14.6 million and $136.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units. Our financing activities used $279.1 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of $421.9 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program implemented in July 2008 and $84.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $227.2 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and number of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises and purchases are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. 57 Table of Contents Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) 1.500% fixed rate notes, due 2013 $ 300,000 $ $ 300,000 2.375% fixed rate notes, due 2015 400,000 400,000 Total $ 700,000 $ $ 700,000 In November 2010 we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $700 million. These Notes consist of $300 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.500% per annum, and $400 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable in cash semi annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2011. The 2013 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.694% and the 2015 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.444% and are recorded as long term debt, net of original issue discount. The discount and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of the Notes are amortized to interest expense over their respective terms. In connection with the Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to use our reasonable commercial efforts to file with the SEC an exchange offer registration statement to issue registered notes with substantially identical terms as the Notes in exchange for any outstanding Notes, or, under certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement to register the Notes. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the exchange offer or cause the shelf registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC, in each case on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the Notes offering. If we are unable to complete our registration statement, we will be subject to interest penalties. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a specified make whole premium as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Default can be triggered by any missed interest or principal payment, breach of covenant, or in certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. The Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to grant liens on assets; enter into sale and lease back transactions; or merge, consolidate or sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants, or any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Credit Facility We entered into a credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swingline loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500 million. The credit facility matures on November 19, 2014, at which time all outstanding revolving facility loans and accrued and unpaid interest must be repaid. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. Any advances under a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR, or BBA LIBOR, plus the Applicable Rate. Any advances under a US Dollar Base Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at rates that are equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% (b) Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (c) BBA LIBOR plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the actual daily unused amount of commitments. We may also, upon the agreement of the existing lenders, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties as well as affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Financial covenants require us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.00 to 1.00. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings We had no other significant notes or borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010: Payment Obligations by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 130,788 $ 91,639 $ 76,084 $ 66,012 $ 63,623 $ 169,657 $ 597,803 Inventory and related purchase obligations 567,169 567,169 Other obligations 121,751 18,357 12,701 12,699 12,700 12,609 190,817 Long term debt 300,000 400,000 700,000 Total $ 819,708 $ 109,996 $ 388,785 $ 78,711 $ 476,323 $ 182,266 $ 2,055,789 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017 with an aggregate rent of $149.6 million (included in the table above). Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Unrecognized tax benefits were $187.5 million of which $22.5 million would result in potential cash payment of taxes and $165.0 million would result in a reduction in net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We are not including any amount related to uncertain tax positions in the table presented above because of the difficulty in making reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of settlements with the respective taxing authorities. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential tax penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Prospective Capital Needs We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the issuance of common stock through our employee stock option and purchase plans, will be 59 Table of Contents sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, repurchases of our Class A common stock and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or increase our existing credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies; the unavailability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their levels of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; the overall levels of sales of our semiconductor products, licensing revenue, income from the Qualcomm Agreement and product gross margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; payment of cash dividends; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; volume price discounts and customer rebates; intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; licensing royalties payable by us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Company manages its total portfolio to encompass a diversified pool of investment grade securities to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may continue to negatively impact our investment income. To assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $22.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.8 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2010 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in short term interest rates would not have a material impact on our revolving credit facility, which bears a floating interest rate. This sensitivity analysis assumes all other variables will remain constant in future periods. Our Senior Notes bear fixed interest rates, and therefore, would not be subject to interest rate risk. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of $2.591 billion held domestically, with the remaining balance of $1.467 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. There may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the United States. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Moreover, because we have participated and continue to participate in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. Companies in and related to the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. We are currently engaged in litigation and may need to engage in additional litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. In addition, we are currently engaged in litigation and may engage in future litigation with parties that claim that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. Such litigation will result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a detailed description of our outstanding intellectual property litigation, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Employees As of December 31, 2010 we had 8,950 employees, including 6,800 individuals engaged in research and development, 850 engaged in sales and marketing, 550 engaged in manufacturing operations, and 750 engaged in general and administrative activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10 Q and 8 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents We face intense competition. The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as new markets develop, as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our business. We expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and presences in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do, and in some cases operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We also face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. Existing or new competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition also has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in increased expenditures on research and development, declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. These factors in turn create increased pressure to consolidate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. We depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers represented 38.9%, 34.6% and 35.8% of our total net revenue for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In 2010, sales to Apple and Samsung represented 11.1% and 10.0% of our net revenue, respectively. In 2009, sales to Samsung represented 10.3% of our net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue in any period may also depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any such key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sales to certain of our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, including: agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. In addition, the majority of our licensing revenues and related income to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. Our patent license agreements with these two customers are expected to result in licensing revenue and related income of approximately $1.025 billion over a six year period. From January 2008 through December 2010, we recorded $545.6 million in licensing revenue and related income derived from Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless has ended and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into additional such arrangements in the future, or that we will be able to successfully collect the remaining payments due to us under the Qualcomm Agreement in the event of a default by Qualcomm. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, decrease in licensing revenue, significant delay in our customers product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter. Variability in the nature of our operating results may be attributed to the factors identified throughout this Risk Factors section, including: changes in economic conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; seasonality in sales of consumer and enterprise products in which our products are incorporated; our dependence on a few significant customers and or design wins for a substantial portion of our revenue; timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; changes in customer product needs and market acceptance of our products; the impact of the Internal Revenue Service review of certain of our income and employment tax returns; and competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products. Many of the factors impacting our operating results are not within our control. We may fail to adjust our operations in response to changes in demand. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly modified the scope of our operations and workforce in recent years. Our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, such as research and development expenses and our highly skilled workforce. During some periods, our growth has placed a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To respond to periods of increased demand, we will be required to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Alternatively, in response to the economic downturn in the markets in the semiconductor industry and communications market, we may be required to implement restructuring actions and a number of other cost saving measures. All of these endeavors require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to adjust our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We face risks associated with our acquisition strategy. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies. The expansion of our business through acquisitions allows us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to identify or consummate future acquisitions or realize the desired benefit from these acquisitions. We face a number of challenges in the integration of acquired businesses that could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management team, including: delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired companys technologies; the loss of key personnel; lower gross margins and other financial challenges; and becoming subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Acquisitions can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, warranty or product liability exposure related to acquired assets, additional stock based compensation expense, write up of acquired inventory to fair value, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets. In addition, we may record goodwill and other purchased intangible assets in connection with an acquisition and incur impairment charges in the future. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in 13 Table of Contents future impairment analyses, are less favorable than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Economic volatility can cause extreme difficulties for our customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This unpredictability could cause our customers to reduce spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers and vendors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impact their ability to make timely payments to us. As a result, we may experience growth patterns that are different than the end demand for products, particularly during periods of high volatility. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of such events on our customers, our vendors or us. The combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a compound impact on our business. The impact of market volatility is not limited to revenue but may also affect our product gross margins and other financial metrics. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties proprietary rights. Additionally, we receive notices that challenge the validity of our patents. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or could prevent us from enforcing our intellectual property rights. We may also be required to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another partys proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and or lost profits. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Any of these claims or litigation may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $15.31 and as high as $47.00 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we, and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities, have been the subject of securities class action litigation. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, most of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, often pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5 1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. As a result, sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of Broadcoms performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by sales of shares by our executive officers. We may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We engage in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our software may be derived from open source software, which is generally made available to the public by its authors and or other third parties. Open source software is often made available under licenses, which impose certain obligations in the event we distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and or license such derivative works on different terms than those customarily used to protect our intellectual property. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. Identifying unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. The initiation of litigation may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that have a stake in the outcome of the litigation proceedings. Litigation is 15 Table of Contents very expensive and may divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation and application of tax laws in jurisdictions in which we file. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, or the imposition of new or changed tax laws or regulations or new related interpretations by taxing authorities in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to and are currently engaged in examinations and tax audits. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our net operating loss and research and development tax credit carryforwards, our financial position, or our operating results. In certain foreign jurisdictions, we operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives. For instance, in Singapore we operate under tax holidays that reduce taxes on substantially all of our operating income in that jurisdiction. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. In a period of tight manufacturing capacity, our ability to meet Singaporean content in our products may be more limited, which may have adverse tax consequences. More generally, if any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated or if we fail to the meet the criteria to continue to enjoy such holidays or incentives, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We manufacture and sell complex products and may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products. We have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products. These problems could interrupt or delay sales and shipments of our products to customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to divert our resources from other development efforts. In addition, these problems could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and or lost profits. We expect that a high percentage of our future sales will come from sales of new products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. The markets for some of these products are new to us and may be immature and or unpredictable. These markets may not develop into profitable opportunities and we have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate our future revenue streams from, or the sustainability of, our new products. Our industry is dynamic and we are required to devote significant resources to research and development to remain competitive. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and we have experienced delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. We may choose to discontinue one or more products or product development programs to dedicate more resources to other products. The discontinuation of an existing or planned product may adversely affect our relationship with one or more of our customers. Our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new integrated products; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products. 16 Table of Contents If we are not able to develop and introduce new products in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. It is difficult to accurately predict demand for our semiconductor products. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel, change or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Our ability to accurately forecast customer demand is further impaired by delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. We operate in a dynamic industry and use significant resources to develop new products for existing and new markets. After we have developed a product, there is no guarantee that our customers will integrate our product into their equipment or devices and, ultimately, bring those equipment and devices incorporating our product to market. In these situations, we may never produce or deliver a significant number of our products, even after incurring substantial development expenses. From the time a customer elects to integrate our solution into their product, it is typically six to 24 months before high volume production of that product commences. After volume production begins, we cannot be assured that the equipment or devices incorporating our product will gain market acceptance. Our product demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. In the event we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, an increasing percentage of our inventory is maintained under hubbing arrangements whereby products are delivered to a customer or third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs. Under these arrangements, we do not recognize product revenue until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired under our hubbing arrangements, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product inventory and negatively impact our cash flow. We are exposed to risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented 97.2%, 94.8% and 91.8% of our product revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of countries. We intend to continue expanding our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; continuation of overseas conflicts and the risk of terrorist attacks and resulting heightened security; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; changes in taxation and tariffs; and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. 17 Table of Contents We depend on third party subcontractors to fabricate, assemble and test our products. We do not own or operate fabrication, assembly or test facilities. We rely on third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test substantially all of our semiconductor devices. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems. These issues could delay shipments of our products or increase our assembly or testing costs. In addition, the increasing capital intensity associated with fabrication in smaller process geometries may limit our diversity of suppliers. We do not have long term agreements with any of our manufacturing, assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. In the event our third party foundry subcontractors experience a disruption or limitation of manufacturing, assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing, assembly and testing services in a timely manner, or at all. Furthermore, our foundries must have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process, which could be time consuming. We could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative manufactures, assemblers or testers for our products. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. Because we rely on outside foundries, we face several significant risks in addition to those discussed above, including: a lack of guaranteed wafer supply and higher wafer prices; the limited availability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and the location of foundries in regions that are subject to earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. In addition, we are dependent on our foundry subcontractors to successfully transition to smaller geometry processes. Government regulation may adversely affect our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has broad jurisdiction in the United States over many of the devices into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable or satellite operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products in the United States. In addition, we may experience delays if a product incorporating our chips fails to comply with FCC emissions specifications. We and our customers are subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. Our business may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our co founders and their affiliates may control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2010 our co founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 11.2% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.6% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including certain mergers and consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2010 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III and Dr. Henry Samueli, beneficially owned a total of 10.1% of our outstanding common stock and held 52.2% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders. Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our share repurchase program would result in an increase in the total voting power of our co founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates, as well as other continuing shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. In January 2010, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which the Company would pay quarterly dividends on our common stock. We intend to continue to pay such dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti takeover provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. For example, our Board of Directors may also issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, which have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared to one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock) as well as the right to vote separately as a class. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue shares of common or preferred stock without a shareholder vote. These provisions, among others, may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease facilities in Irvine (our corporate headquarters), Sunnyvale, Santa Clara, San Jose and San Diego, California. These facilities are our principal design facilities and each includes administration, sales and marketing, 19 Table of Contents research and development and operations functions. We lease additional design facilities throughout the United States. Internationally, we lease a distribution center that includes engineering design and administrative facilities in Singapore as well as engineering design and administrative facilities in Asia, Israel, Europe and Canada. In addition, we lease various sales and marketing facilities in the United States and several other countries. We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine comprise 0.87 million square feet and have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017. We believe that the facilities under lease will be adequate for at least the next 12 months. For additional information regarding our obligations under property leases, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our Class A common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol BRCM. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market: High Low Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 47.00 $ 34.34 Third Quarter 38.47 29.90 Second Quarter 36.94 29.05 First Quarter 34.30 26.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 32.29 $ 25.76 Third Quarter 31.20 23.01 Second Quarter 27.56 19.11 First Quarter 21.49 15.31 As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 there were 1,070 and 1,168 record holders of our Class A common stock and 154 and 167 record holders of our Class B common stock, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $46.39 per share. Our Class B common stock is not publicly traded. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converts upon sale or other transfer. 21 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5 year total return attained by shareholders on Broadcom Corporations common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the SP 500 index, the PHLX Semiconductor index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our common stock and in each index on 12/31/2005 and its relative performance is tracked through 12/31/2010. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* AMONG BROADCOM CORPORATION, THE S P 500 INDEX, THE NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX AND THE PHLX SEMICONDUCTOR INDEX The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 22 Table of Contents Dividend Policy In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.08 per common share payable to holders of our common stock in each of the four quarters of 2010. In 2010 we paid $163.4 million in dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. These dividends were paid from U.S. domestic sources other than our retained earnings and are accounted for as reductions of shareholders equity. The cash dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under that policy are subject to the Boards continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2010 we issued an aggregate of 3.0 million shares of Class A common stock upon conversion of a like number of shares of Class B common stock in connection with their disposition. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A common stock at the option of the holder. The offers and sales of those securities were effected without registration in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities From time to time our Board of Directors has authorized various programs to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under such programs, we repurchased a total of 9.1 million, 15.0 million and 65.2 million shares of Class A common stock at weighted average prices of $30.86, $28.12 and $19.44 per share, in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. The maximum number of shares of our Class A common stock that may be repurchased in any one year is equal to the total number of shares issued pursuant to our equity awards in the previous year and the current year. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This program may also be complemented with an additional share repurchase program in the future. The following table presents details of our various repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2010: Approximate Dollar Total Number of Value of Shares Total Number Average Shares Purchased That May yet be of Shares Price as Part of Publicly Purchased under Period Purchased per Share Announced Plan the Plan (In thousands) (In thousands) (In thousands) October 2010 $ November 2010 December 2010 140 44.13 140 Total 140 $ 44.13 140 $ 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data Net revenue: Product revenue $ 6,589,270 $ 4,272,726 $ 4,485,239 $ 3,739,312 $ 3,667,818 Income from Qualcomm Agreement(1) 206,696 170,611 Licensing revenue(2) 22,353 46,986 172,886 37,083 Total net revenue 6,818,319 4,490,323 4,658,125 3,776,395 3,667,818 Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue(3) 3,284,213 2,210,559 2,213,015 1,832,178 1,795,565 Research and development(3) 1,762,323 1,534,918 1,497,668 1,348,508 1,117,014 Selling, general and administrative(3) 590,572 479,362 543,117 492,737 504,012 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 27,570 14,548 3,392 1,027 2,347 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 1,500 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 15,470 5,200 Charitable contribution 50,000 Total operating costs and expenses 5,736,459 4,434,251 4,485,995 3,691,420 3,424,138 Income from operations 1,081,860 56,072 172,130 84,975 243,680 Interest income, net 9,032 13,901 52,201 131,069 118,997 Other income (expense), net 6,428 2,218 (2,016 ) 3,412 3,964 Income before income taxes 1,097,320 72,191 222,315 219,456 366,641 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15,520 6,930 7,521 6,114 (12,400 ) Net income $ 1,081,800 $ 65,261 $ 214,794 $ 213,342 $ 379,041 Net income per share (basic)(4) $ 2.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.42 $ 0.39 $ 0.69 Net income per share (diluted)(4) $ 1.99 $ 0.13 $ 0.41 $ 0.37 $ 0.64 December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents and short and long term marketable securities $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,898,122 $ 2,403,652 $ 2,801,598 Working capital 2,912,311 1,765,982 2,034,110 2,323,716 2,673,087 Goodwill and purchased intangible assets, net 2,042,937 1,480,541 1,341,201 1,423,328 1,214,174 Total assets 7,944,310 5,127,242 4,393,265 4,838,193 4,876,766 Total shareholders equity 5,826,089 3,891,846 3,607,067 4,036,148 4,191,666 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009. See Overview section in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. (2) Includes royalties of $19.0 million, $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007, which was completed in March 2009. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the calculation of net income per share. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Gross Margin Data Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % 51.0 % 51.0 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 51.5 51.0 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Data on Stock Based Compensation Expense Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 $ 24,545 $ 24,997 $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 341,733 351,884 358,018 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 118,789 119,918 126,359 139,533 136,679 The tables above set forth our selected consolidated financial data. We prepared this information using the consolidated financial statements of Broadcom for the five years ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of acquisitions commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. You should read this selected consolidated financial data together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes contained in this Report and in our prior and subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as the section of this Report and our other reports entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation (including our subsidiaries, referred to collectively in this Report as Broadcom, we, our and us) is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip, or SoC, and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers in each of our reportable segments: Broadband Communications (Home), Mobile Wireless (Hand) and Infrastructure Networking (Infrastructure). Our Mobile Wireless reportable segment comprises our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity businesses. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into products used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. Our diverse product portfolio includes: Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Highly integrated solutions for the connected home, including set top boxes and media servers, residential gateways, home networking, femtocells, high definition TV platforms, Blu ray Disc players and digital video recorders (DVRs). Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Low power, high performance and highly integrated solutions powering the mobile ecosystem, including Wi Fi and Bluetooth, cellular modems, personal navigation and global positioning, near field communications, multimedia and application processing, and mobile power management solutions. Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Highly integrated solutions to carriers, service providers, enterprises, small to medium businesses and data centers for network infrastructure needs, including switches and physical layer (PHY) devices for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; switch fabric solutions; and high speed controllers. Our product revenue consists principally of sales of semiconductor devices and, to a lesser extent, software licenses and royalties, development, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our product sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our product sales occurs through distributors. Our licensing revenue and income is generated from the licensing of our intellectual property, of which the vast majority to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm Incorporated. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless ended in March 2009 and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into similar arrangements in the future. At December 31, 2010 we had deferred income of $47.1 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement. The following table details the amount of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless and income from the Qualcomm Agreement that was recognized or is scheduled to be recognized from 2008 to 2013: Recognized Scheduled to be Recognized 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ $ 170,611 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 856,413 Licensing revenue from Verizon Wireless 149,232 18,968 168,200 $ 149,232 $ 189,579 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 1,024,613 26 Table of Contents Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment or devices incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of our acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these acquisitions. Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 In 2010 our net income was $1.082 billion as compared to net income of $65.3 million in 2009, a difference of $1.017 billion. The increase in profitability was the direct result of a broad based increase in net revenue of 51.8% in 2010, as compared to 2009. In addition, our total gross margin increased 100 basis points in 2010, as compared to 2009. Other 2010 highlights include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009. We generated cash flow from operations of $1.371 billion in 2010. In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. We paid $163.4 million in dividends in 2010. In February 2010, as part of Broadcoms regular annual equity compensation review program, our Compensation Committee granted 10.1 million shares subject to equity awards, which included 2.2 million employee stock options and 7.9 million restricted stock units. At the date of grant, the amount of unearned stock based compensation expense associated with these awards was $247.6 million and was estimated to be expensed from 2010 through 2014. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset the dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. Under this program we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $32.32 per share in 2010. We repurchased an additional 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $29.75, which completed our share repurchase program announced in July 2008. In March 2010 we acquired Teknovus, Inc., or Teknovus, a leading supplier of Ethernet Passive Optical Network chipsets and software for approximately $109.3 million, exclusive of $9.2 million of cash acquired. We also assumed $14.6 million of debt which was subsequently repaid. In July 2010 we acquired Innovision Research Technology PLC, or Innovision, a near field communication, or NFC, technology company for $49.8 million, exclusive of $1.8 million of cash acquired. In November 2010 we completed a private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015. We also entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. 27 Table of Contents In November 2010 we acquired Percello Ltd., or Percello, a company that develops femtocell SoC solutions for $84.6 million, exclusive of $1.7 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $12.0 million in additional consideration to former Percello shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Percello entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.1 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Percello shareholders. We also issued 0.1 million restricted stock units to certain former employees of Percello who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $3.1 million, of which $0.2 million was recorded as goodwill, and $2.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next four years. In November 2010 we acquired Beceem Communications, Inc., or Beceem, a company that develops SoC solutions for LTE and WiMAX 4G connectivity for $301.8 million, exclusive of $11.8 million of cash acquired. We assumed Beceems equity plan and subsequently issued 0.8 million Broadcom stock options. The stock options had a fair value of $22.6 million, of which $0.7 million was recorded as goodwill and $21.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. In December 2010 we acquired Gigle Networks Inc., or Gigle, a company that develops SoC solutions for home networking over power lines for $75.8 million, exclusive of $1.4 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $8.0 million in additional consideration to former Gigle shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Gigle entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.9 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Gigle shareholders. We issued restricted stock units to certain former employees of Gigle who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $1.1 million, of which $0.1 million was recorded as goodwill, and $1.0 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. We also issued employee stock options with a fair value of $0.7 million which will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. Business Enterprise Segments The following tables present details of our reportable segments and the All Other category: Reportable Segments Broadband Mobile Infrastructure All Communications Wireless Networking Other Consolidated (In thousands) Year ended December 31, 2010 Net revenue $ 2,134,373 $ 2,889,226 $ 1,587,775 $ 206,945 $ 6,818,319 Operating income (loss) 446,556 526,177 578,182 (469,055 ) 1,081,860 Year ended December 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 1,525,193 $ 1,719,998 $ 1,055,553 $ 189,579 $ 4,490,323 Operating income (loss) 180,392 116,882 287,837 (529,039 ) 56,072 Year ended December 31, 2008 Net revenue $ 1,722,671 $ 1,528,178 $ 1,258,044 $ 149,232 $ 4,658,125 Operating income (loss) 383,582 33,974 390,293 (635,719 ) 172,130 28 Table of Contents Included in the All Other category: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 206,945 $ 189,579 $ 149,232 Stock based compensation $ 483,024 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 58,594 30,744 19,249 Amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up 9,644 9,225 2,161 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 Charitable contribution 50,000 Employer payroll tax on certain stock option exercises 12,541 4,866 3,966 Miscellaneous corporate allocation variances 40,416 (17,428 ) 21,398 Total other operating costs and expenses $ 676,000 $ 718,618 $ 784,951 Total operating loss for the All Other category $ (469,055 ) $ (529,039 ) $ (635,719 ) For additional information about our business enterprise segments, see further discussion in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Impact Net Income Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: volume of product sales and corresponding gross margin; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; stock based compensation expense; licensing and income from intellectual property; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; amortization of purchased intangible assets; cash based incentive compensation expense; litigation costs and insurance recoveries, including our directors and officers insurance settlement; settlement costs or gains; adjustments to tax reserves and the results of income tax audits; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock, dividends and acquisitions of businesses; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; charitable contributions; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; restructuring costs or reversals thereof; and gain (loss) on strategic investments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation 29 Table of Contents expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, tax contingencies, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates, assumptions or judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements that include a combination of semiconductor products and other elements, judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. We allocate the arrangement consideration based on each elements relative fair value using vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, third party evidence, or estimated selling prices, as the basis of fair value. Revenue is recognized for the accounting units when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met. For further discussion, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer or third party warehouse reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our licensing revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our total net revenue and net income. We defer revenue and income when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include 30 Table of Contents amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Income from the Qualcomm Agreement. The Qualcomm Agreement as discussed above, is a multiple element arrangement. We allocated the amount to be received under the Qualcomm Agreement amongst several elements. A gain from the settlement of litigation was immediately recognized and approximated the value of awards determined by the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining consideration was predominantly associated with the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights, as well as the settlement of all other outstanding litigation, and is being recognized over the four year performance period as a single unit of accounting. The value associated with the transfer of intellectual property rights and other elements was treated as a single unit of accounting and, based on the predominant nature of these elements, recognized them within net revenue over the contractual performance period of four years, beginning in 2009 and extending through 2013. The elements included: (i) an exchange of intellectual property rights, including in certain circumstances, a series of covenants not to assert claims of patent infringement under future patents issued within one to four years of the execution date of the agreement, (ii) the assignment of certain existing patents by Broadcom to Qualcomm with Broadcom retaining a royalty free license under these patents, and (iii) the settlement of all outstanding litigation and claims between us and Qualcomm. We consider the Qualcomm Agreement as predominantly related to the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights. This conclusion was based on (a) the amounts specifically awarded by the courts for the patents that were the subject of litigation for which appeals had been substantially exhausted and (b) the extensive nature of the rights transferred to Qualcomm, both for our existing patent portfolio and for the patents we would develop during the next one to four years. In addition, we obtained a third party valuation of the intellectual property rights. The inputs and assumptions we used in this valuation were from a market participant perspective and included projected revenue, royalty rates, estimated discount rates, useful lives and income tax rates, among others. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in our model requires significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors including the selection of industry comparables, market growth rates and other relevant factors. Changes in any number of these assumptions would have substantially changed the fair value assigned to the intellectual property rights. These inputs and assumptions represent managements best estimates at the time of the transaction. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions of revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end and when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our net revenue and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions of revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory Write Downs and Warranty Reserves. We write down the carrying value of our inventory to net realizable value for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be 31 Table of Contents impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our product gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. All share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, are recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. The fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Although we utilize the Black Scholes model, which meets established requirements, the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Prior to 2010, our dividend yield assumption excluded dividend payouts. In 2010 we began to pay quarterly dividends and included that assumption in our fair value calculations. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant less our expected dividend yield. We evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Effective January 1, 2009 in process research and development, or IPRD, and defensive assets acquired are capitalized. Prior to 2009 IPRD was expensed immediately. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization thereof. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry, (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results or (v) the abandonment of any of our acquired in process research and development projects. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management 32 Table of Contents judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction of income tax expense in the period of such realization. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. Income tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold are recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold are derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement costs. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact product gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and or our ability to settle disputes on terms acceptable to us are subject to significant uncertainty. Should we choose to pay significant sums in settling a dispute or should material legal matters be resolved against the Company, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue: Product revenue 96.7 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 3.0 3.8 Licensing revenue 0.3 1.0 3.7 Total net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue 48.2 49.2 47.5 Research and development 25.7 34.2 32.1 Selling, general and administrative 8.7 10.7 11.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.4 0.3 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 0.3 0.4 3.7 Settlement costs, net 0.8 2.7 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) 0.2 In process research and development 0.9 Charitable contribution 1.1 Total operating costs and expenses 84.1 98.8 96.3 Income from operations 15.9 1.2 3.7 Interest income, net 0.1 0.3 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 16.1 1.6 4.8 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.1 0.2 Net income 15.9 % 1.5 % 4.6 % The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Cost of product revenue 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Research and development 5.0 7.8 7.7 Selling, general and administrative 1.7 2.7 2.7 34 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 6,589,270 96.7 % $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 2,316,544 54.2 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 206,696 3.0 170,611 3.8 36,085 21.2 Licensing revenue 22,353 0.3 46,986 1.0 (24,633 ) (52.4 ) Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 3,284,213 48.2 % $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 1,073,654 48.6 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 1.9 % Total gross margin 51.8 % 50.8 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,889,139 97.1 % $ 1,748,692 96.8 % $ 140,447 8.0 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Licensing revenue 4,742 0.2 5,651 0.3 (909 ) (16.1 ) Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 955,711 49.1 % $ 871,951 48.3 % $ 83,760 9.6 Product gross margin 49.4 % 50.1 % (0.7 )% Total gross margin 50.9 % 51.7 % (0.8 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. Our product revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor devices. Our Broadband Communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our Mobile Wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our Infrastructure Networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Our licensing revenue and income from the Qualcomm Agreement is generated from the licensing of intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 2,134,373 31.3 % $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 609,180 39.9 % Mobile Wireless 2,889,226 42.4 1,719,998 38.3 1,169,228 68.0 Infrastructure Networking 1,587,775 23.3 1,055,553 23.5 532,222 50.4 All other(1) 206,945 3.0 189,579 4.2 17,366 9.2 Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into in April 2009, (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009 and (iii) other revenue from certain patent agreements, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for our wireless connectivity combo solutions, as well as the ramp of our cellular products. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. The increase in our All Other category was the result of a $36.1 million increase in income received from the Qualcomm Agreement, offset in part by a $19.0 million decrease in licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless, which was completed in March 2009. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2010 2010 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 576,966 29.7 % $ 561,519 31.1 % $ 15,447 2.8 % Mobile Wireless 907,484 46.7 797,395 44.2 110,089 13.8 Infrastructure Networking 409,431 20.9 395,429 21.8 14,002 3.5 All other(1) 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for cellular products and our wireless combo solutions. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $526.1 million, or 7.7% of net revenue and $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2010 was attributable to the increase in net revenue along with a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reversed accrued rebates of $4.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Table of Contents From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the seasonal variations in consumer products and changes in the overall economic environment. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete products and negatively impact our cash flow. For these and other reasons, our total net revenue and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. Concentration of Net Revenue Income from the Qualcomm Agreement is expected to be recognized through 2013 as follows: 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 479,107 The following table presents details of our product net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product sales through direct sales force(1) 77.6 % 78.8 % 83.6 % Product sales through distributors(2) 22.4 21.2 16.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes 7.8%, 7.1% and 6.1% of product sales maintained under hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Includes 7.9%, 8.1% and 4.4% of product sales maintained under fulfillment distributor arrangements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Apple 11.1 % * * Samsung 10.0 10.3 % * Five largest customers as a group 38.9 34.6 35.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our total net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Product revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of product revenue was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 China (exclusive of Hong Kong) 30.4 % 28.3 % 29.5 % Hong Kong 26.0 24.8 27.9 Other Asia (primarily in Singapore and Taiwan) 36.8 37.6 29.3 Europe (primarily in Sweden, Hungary, France, Romania) 2.4 2.7 2.8 Other 1.6 1.4 2.3 97.2 % 94.8 % 91.8 % 37 Table of Contents All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Factors That May Impact Net Revenue The demand for our products and the subsequent recognition of net revenue has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and distributors, to manage inventory; the timing of our distributors shipments to their customers or when products are taken by our customers under hubbing arrangements; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt/ramp our products and technologies; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; and the availability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Cost of product revenue comprises the cost of our semiconductor devices, which consists of the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, as well as royalties paid to vendors for use of their technology. Also included in cost of product revenue is the amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. Product gross margin is product revenue less cost of product revenue divided by product revenue and does not include income from the Qualcomm Agreement and revenue from the licensing of intellectual property. Total gross margin is total net revenue less cost of product revenue divided by total net revenue. Product gross margin increased from 48.3% in 2009 to 50.2% in 2010 primarily as a result of cost reductions in each of our reportable segments as we continued our transition to 40 nanometer process technology. Other factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base (ii) higher margins in our infrastructure and networking products offset by (iii) a net increase in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $7.3 million due to an increase in the provision for digital TV products. Product gross margin decreased from 50.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2010 to 49.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of (i) a net increase in warranty provisions of $10.8 million primarily related to specific claims recorded to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a significant component derived from a recent acquisition, offset in part by (ii) a reduction in the excess and obsolete inventory provision of $5.7 million, and fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base. Factors That May Impact Product and Total Gross Margin Our product and total gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; introduction of products with lower margins; the effects of competition; 38 Table of Contents the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories and their relationship to demand volatility; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and other fixed costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; our ability to advance to the next technology node faster than our competitors; licensing royalties payable by us; product warranty costs; fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets; amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our product and total gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 928,956 13.6 % $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 158,844 20.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Development and design costs 273,682 4.0 211,494 4.7 62,188 29.4 Other 217,952 3.1 201,428 4.5 16,524 8.2 Research and development $ 1,762,323 25.7 % $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 227,405 14.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 1,300 personnel; bringing total headcount to approximately 6,800 personnel. This represents a 23.6% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, and was predominantly in each of our reportable segments as a result of both organic growth and our 2010 acquisitions. Salary increases were also attributable to increased incentive compensation. Development and design costs increased due to increases in mask, prototyping, testing and engineering design tool costs stemming from our continued transition of products to 40 nanometer process technologies. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing, development and tape out of various products. We expect research and development costs to increase as a result of growth in, and diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. 39 Table of Contents We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. The majority of our new products are now designed in 40 nanometer CMOS processes, and we are preparing for the 28 nanometer process. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 240,176 3.5 % $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 45,840 23.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) Legal and accounting fees 139,795 2.1 110,205 2.5 29,590 26.8 Other 91,812 1.4 54,903 1.2 36,909 67.2 Selling, general and administrative $ 590,572 8.7 % $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 111,210 23.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 300 personnel, which represents a 23.1% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, as well as higher incentive compensation. The increase in legal and accounting fees in 2010 was primarily related to a 2009 recovery of legal fees of $91.3 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, which reduced our 2009 legal fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and prior years stock option backdating securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings and various other transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in the Other line item in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in facilities and travel expenses. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 0.3 % $ 24,545 0.5 % $ (2,043 ) (8.3 )% Research and development 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Selling, general and administrative 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) $ 483,024 7.0 % $ 496,347 11.0 % $ (13,323 ) (2.7 ) 40 Table of Contents We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards, resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. The following table presents details of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 through 2014 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2010: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Unearned stock based compensation $ 420,700 $ 252,097 $ 129,556 $ 23,329 $ $ 825,682 See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 31,024 0.5 % $ 16,196 0.4 % $ 14,828 91.6 % Other operating expenses 27,570 0.4 14,548 0.3 13,022 89.5 $ 58,594 0.9 % $ 30,744 0.7 % $ 27,850 90.6 The following table presents details of the amortization of existing purchased intangible assets, including IPRD that is currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 and thereafter. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of product revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 58,508 $ 71,915 $ 62,917 $ 48,462 $ 29,101 $ 37,251 $ 308,154 Other operating expenses 27,810 10,057 3,359 3,376 3,444 9,640 57,686 $ 86,318 $ 81,972 $ 66,276 $ 51,838 $ 32,545 $ 46,891 $ 365,840 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill in October 2010, 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology, which includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, 41 Table of Contents which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating appropriate present value techniques. Specifically, the income approach valuations included the following assumptions: Valuation Assumptions 2010 2009 2008 Discount Rate 12.0% 17.7% 12.0% 17.5% 15.0% 17.0% Perpetual Growth Rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.0% Tax 17.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk Free Rate 3.4% 4.0% 4.3% Peer Company Beta 1.26 1.52 1.24 1.69 1.83 2.50 Based on our 2010 and 2009 impairment assessments, we believe we have no at risk goodwill. At December 31, 2010 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless (which includes our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity reporting units) reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $594.9 million, $623.3 million and $447.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.0 million, $587.5 million and $259.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.8 million, $536.4 million and $259.1 million, respectively. Upon completion of the October 2010 and 2009 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit. In 2010 we recorded an impairment charge of $17.3 million related to a Sunext technology license that was acquired in 2008. In 2009 we recorded impairment charges to customer relationships, developed technology and certain other assets of $18.9 million related to the acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD. The primary factor contributing to these impairment charges was the continued reduction in our revenue outlook for these businesses, and the related decrease to the estimated cash flows indentified with the impaired assets. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the difference between the fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the Mobile Platforms reporting unit was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit at that time. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the assets and their fair values. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on this evaluation we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property and equipment of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit in the three months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The primary factors contributing to the Mobile Platforms reporting unit impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to calculate the estimated fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs (Gains) We recorded settlement costs of $52.6 million in 2010 primarily related to licensing and settlement agreements and certain employment tax items. In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions. We subsequently entered into a stipulation and agreement of settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions dated as of April 30, 2010, which provides for the claims against Broadcom and its current and former officers and directors to be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and subsequent payment was made in June 2010 into a settlement fund. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In Process Research and Development In 2010 we capitalized $55.6 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisitions of Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle. There were no identifiable IPRD assets related to the acquisition of Innovision. In 2009 we capitalized $50.9 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc., which was reclassified to developed technology in 2010 upon completion and will be amortized to cost of product revenue. Upon completion of each project, the related IPRD assets will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. If any of the projects are abandoned, we will be required to impair the related IPRD asset. We expensed $42.4 million in 2008 related to in process research and development costs related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD. In 2008 the amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition under then prevailing accounting standards as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of the IPRD for our acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance of our products. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence of and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account the expected product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. The 2008 IPRD charge included only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the technology. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as 43 Table of Contents developed technology, represented the fair values and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the valuations of IPRD at the acquisition dates for the acquisitions completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2010 Acquisitions Gigle Networks Powerline Communication Solutions 12 % 1.4 $ 9.9 18 % $ 4.8 Percello LTE/Femtocell solutions 10 % 3.2 $ 10.2 17 % $ 10.1 Beceem LTE/WiMAX 51 % 1.1 $ 32.3 22 % $ 29.3 Teknovus Ethernet Passive Optical Network (EPON) chipsets and software 11 % 0.9 $ 19.3 26 % $ 10.6 2009 Acquisitions Dune Networks High density switching line card solutions 85 % 1.0 $ 1.9 21 % $ 50.4 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 % 1.0 $ 6.9 24 % $ 31.5 As of the acquisition date, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2010 all development projects from our Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle acquisitions were still in process. IPRD will be reclassified to developed technology and amortized to cost of product revenue upon completion. We completed all other development projects related to our prior acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Charitable Contribution In April 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs, as well as a broad range of community services. In 2009 we made an unrestricted grant of $50.0 million to the Foundation upon receiving a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of the exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense for the contribution of $50.0 million in 2009. We did not make any contributions to the Foundation in 2010. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 9,032 0.1 % $ 13,901 0.3 % $ (4,869 ) (35.0 )% Other income (expense), net 6,428 0.1 2,218 0.1 4,210 189.8 Interest income, net, reflects interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances offset by interest expense on our long term debt. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains on strategic investments and foreign currency transactions. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of interest expense related to long term debt and the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009 to $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock purchase rights and proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt. The average interest rates earned in 2010 and 2009 were 0.43% and 0.63%, respectively. The decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment. The increase in other income, net was primarily the result of a gain on strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 15,520 0.2 % $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 8,590 124.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2010 and 2009. Our effective tax rates were 1.4% and 9.6% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2010 and 2009 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2010 and 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in 2009, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $11.9 million and $7.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, as a result of the May 27, 2009 and March 22, 2010 decisions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case concerning Xilinx (discussed below), we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $3 million in 2010 to reverse the approximately $3 million of related exposure previously recorded in 2009. As previously disclosed, on May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals originally held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. As a result of this May 27, 2009 decision, we reduced our gross deferred tax assets for federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and capitalized research and development costs, increased our deferred tax assets for certain tax credits, and increased our tax provision in 2009 by approximately $3 million. However, on January 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and subsequently issued a new decision in favor of Xilinx on March 22, 2010, thereby affirming the August 30, 2005 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. Consequently, during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reversed the amounts we had previously recorded in 2009 related to the courts May 27, 2009 decision. As a result, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our tax provision by approximately $3 million and adjusted certain of our gross deferred tax assets. Included in these adjustments was an increase in our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $665 million and $455 million, respectively, an increase of federal and state capitalized research and development costs of approximately $10 million each, an increase in our deferred tax assets relating to stock based compensation of approximately $65 million, and a decrease in certain tax credits of approximately $10 million. These changes in our gross deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance adjustment, and therefore did not result in any change in our net deferred tax assets or our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010. In addition to the adjustments related to the March 22, 2010 Xilinx decision, in the three months ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our federal and state net operating losses by approximately $60 million for adjustments to our intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for the years ended 2001 to 2009. This reduction to our net operating losses was fully offset by a corresponding adjustment to 45 Table of Contents the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheet and no adjustment to our income tax expense. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $16.7 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination and assessment of taxes by federal and most state tax authorities. In significant foreign jurisdictions, the 2002 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $330.0 million, $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.61, $0.44 and $0.54 for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $187.5 million which included $22.5 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. Approximately $12.3 million of the tax benefit, if recognized would be credited to shareholders equity. The remaining $152.7 million, if recognized, would not result in a tax benefit since it would be fully offset with a valuation allowance. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2010, and in total, as of December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities for potential penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. In 2010 we had a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $272.5 million relating to increases to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years primarily resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit March 22, 2010 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In addition, we had an increase in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $38.9 million primarily relating to transactions with certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380 million as of December 31, 2009. In 2010 we reversed approximately $272.5 million of this amount due to the March 22, 2010 decision in the Xilinx case as discussed above, and recorded $23.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from a 2010 change in judgment regarding certain tax accruals. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 46 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin; Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 4,485,239 96.3 % $ (212,513 ) (4.7 )% Income from Qualcomm Agreement 170,611 3.8 170,611 Licensing revenue 46,986 1.0 172,886 3.7 (125,900 ) (72.8 ) Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) Cost of product revenue(1) $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 2,213,015 47.5 % $ (2,456 ) (0.1 ) Product gross margin 48.3 % 50.7 % (2.4 )% Total gross margin 50.8 % 52.5 % (1.7 )% Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,283,434 95.6 % $ 1,194,745 95.3 % $ 88,689 7.4 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Licensing revenue 7,638 0.6 7,778 0.6 (140 ) (1.8 ) Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 630,259 46.9 % $ 615,349 49.1 % $ 14,910 2.4 Product gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 2.4 % Total gross margin 53.1 % 50.9 % 2.2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ (197,478 ) (11.5 )% Mobile Wireless 1,719,998 38.3 1,528,178 32.8 191,820 12.6 Infrastructure Networking 1,055,553 23.5 1,258,044 27.0 (202,491 ) (16.1 ) All other(1) 189,579 4.2 149,232 3.2 40,347 27.0 Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) 47 Table of Contents (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 and (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital set top boxes and digital TV products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our high definition DVD products. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the ramp in the second half of 2009 of our cellular products and wireless combo solutions, offset in part by a decrease in demand for VoIP solutions. The decrease in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from a broad based decline in demand for our controller and Ethernet switch products. In 2009 we recognized $170.6 million of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and $19.0 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless. In 2008 we recognized $149.2 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless which was completed in March 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue and $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2009 was attributable to a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We reversed accrued rebates of $10.5 million and $39.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2009 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 449,233 33.5 % $ 394,863 31.5 % $ 54,370 13.8 % Mobile Wireless 502,037 37.4 520,613 41.5 (18,576 ) (3.6 ) Infrastructure Networking 339,802 25.3 287,047 22.9 52,755 18.4 All other(1) 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The decrease in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for our Bluetooth products, due to seasonality, as certain of our customers prepared for the upcoming holiday season in three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted principally from improving customer order patterns particularly for our Ethernet switch products. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Product gross margin decreased from 50.7% in 2008 to 48.3% in 2009 primarily as a result of changes in product mix from our more profitable Infrastructure Networking products to our less profitable Mobile Wireless products. Other factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin were: (i) a net decrease in the reversal of rebates of $29.1 million related to unclaimed rebates, (ii) fixed costs being spread over a lower revenue base, offset in part by (iii) a net decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $18.8 million. During 2008 we recorded a $33.7 million provision as a result of the significant reduction in demand in the 48 Table of Contents second half of 2008, whereas the $14.9 million provision recorded during 2009 was primarily related to inventory of our DTV business. Product gross margin increased from 48.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2009 to 50.9% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) product mix, (ii) a reduction in net excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $9.5 million, offset in part by (iii) an increase in the warranty provision of $2.4 million. Research and Development Expense The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 719,922 15.5 % $ 50,190 7.0 % Stock based compensation 351,884 7.8 358,018 7.7 (6,134 ) (1.7 ) Development and design costs 211,494 4.7 211,928 4.5 (434 ) (0.2 ) Other 201,428 4.5 207,800 4.4 (6,372 ) (3.1 ) Research and development $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 37,250 2.5 The increase in salaries and benefits was the result of an increase in our incentive plan costs due primarily to the stronger than anticipated performance in relative revenue growth as compared to an identified segment of the semiconductor industry and better than anticipated cash flow from operations generated in 2009. This was offset in part by the impact of our restructuring plan in January and October 2009 and our not having an annual salary merit increase in 2009. Development and design costs were relatively flat; however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 198,411 4.3 % $ (4,075 ) (2.1 )% Stock based compensation 119,918 2.7 126,359 2.7 (6,441 ) (5.1 ) Legal and accounting fees 110,205 2.5 141,369 3.0 (31,164 ) (22.0 ) Other 54,903 1.2 76,978 1.7 (22,075 ) (28.7 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 543,117 11.7 % $ (63,755 ) (11.7 ) The decrease in legal and accounting fees related to the increase in net recoveries of legal expenses of $74.6 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, offset in part by an increase in legal fees associated with litigation related to our stock options matter. See below for further discussion of our directors and officers insurance policies. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in facility and travel and entertainment expenses. 49 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 24,545 $ 24,997 Research and development 351,884 358,018 Selling, general and administrative 119,918 126,359 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 % of total net revenue 11.1 % 10.9 % Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 16,196 $ 15,857 Other operating expenses 14,548 3,392 $ 30,744 $ 19,249 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill and other long lived assets in October 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. For a description of the 2008 impairments including the valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Settlement Costs, Net In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The 50 Table of Contents settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) In light of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, in 2009 we implemented restructuring plans that included a reduction in our worldwide headcount of 200 people and an additional 120 people related to our DTV business. These reductions in headcount were completed in 2009. We recorded $7.5 million in net restructuring costs in 2009, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce across multiple locations and functions and, to a lesser extent, the closure of one of our facilities. Included in the 2009 net restructuring expense were charges of $3.7 million related to stock based compensation expense incurred in connection with the modification of certain share based awards. In addition, we reversed restructuring costs of $4.2 million, as part of a contractual obligation due from AMD to reimburse us for certain restructuring actions taken during a stipulated post acquisition period. At December 31, 2009 our restructuring liability was $1.3 million. In Process Research and Development For a description of our 2009 and 2008 IPRD activities including our valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under In Process Research and Development for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Charitable Contribution In 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support mathematics and science programs, as well as a broad range of community services. We received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense of $50.0 million related to our unrestricted grant to the Foundation. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 13,901 0.3 % $ 52,201 1.1 % $ (38,300 ) (73.4 )% Other income (expense), net 2,218 0.1 (2,016 ) 4,234 (210.0 ) The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008 to $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, including the $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement. The average interest rates earned in 2009 and 2008 were 0.63% and 2.42%, respectively. The 2009 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the current interest rate environment (Federal Funds Rate nearly 0%) and reinvestment rates being significantly lower than in 2008. 51 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 7,521 0.2 % $ (591 ) (7.9 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2009 and 2008. Our effective tax rates were 9.6% and 3.4% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2009 and 2008 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by a $1.5 billion dividend resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of this $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings, we incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008. However, due to the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets in 2008 (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the repatriation. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in both 2009 and 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009, and a provision contained in the Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was enacted in July, 2008. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $7.6 million and $6.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009, we recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million associated with the exposure resulting from a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case involving Xilinx, Inc. as discussed below. On May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. The case is subject to further appeal. The potential impact to Broadcom, should the IRS prevail, of including such stock based compensation expenses in our research and development cost sharing arrangements would be additional income for federal and state purposes from January 1, 2001 forward, and may result in additional related federal and state income and franchise taxes. We adjusted our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, our federal and state capitalized research and development costs and our deferred tax positions, and recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million for additional federal and state income and franchise taxes to reflect this decision. We reduced our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $600.0 million and $380.0 million, respectively, and we reduced our deferred tax assets for both federal and state capitalized research and development costs by approximately $10.0 million each. Additionally, in 2009 we reduced our deferred tax asset relating to stock based compensation expenses by approximately $60.0 million, and increased our deferred tax asset for certain tax credits by approximately $10.0 million, with each of these amounts offset by a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to deferred tax assets. As a result of the expensing of share based payments since January 1, 2006, our deferred tax assets exclude certain excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation, that are components of our research and development credits, capitalized research and development, and net operating loss carryovers. If and when these tax benefits are realized, a credit is recorded to shareholders equity. The federal and state net operating losses and the capitalized research and development costs we reduced as a result of the decision in the Xilinx case represent such excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation and therefore do not result in an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. 52 Table of Contents On January 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and stated that it would reconsider the matter at a future date to be determined. In accounting for income tax uncertainties, only information that is available at our reporting date of December 31, 2009 could be considered in measuring our tax position. For details regarding the effects of subsequent 2010 decisions of the Ninth Circuit in Xilinx, see the discussion included under Provision for Income Taxes for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $11.2 million at December 31, 2009 and net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380.0 million, of which approximately $280.0 million would be credited to shareholders equity if ultimately sustained and utilized to reduce our income tax liabilities because it relates to excess deductions from employee stock options. The remaining portion of these tax benefits, approximately $100.0 million, was previously offset by a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If these tax positions are not sustained, there will be no net effect on our tax provision because of the related valuation allowance. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by federal and most state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, the 2001 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. In addition, our employment tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.44 and $0.54 for 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2009 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $400.8 million which included $117.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2009, and in total, as of December 31, 2009, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $11.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. We had a $376.9 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits relating to reductions to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years. These reductions primarily resulted from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit May 27, 2009 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Other than the possible reversal of the increases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to the decision in the Xilinx case, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Total Net Income Per Revenue (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 1,945,555 $ 266,189 (1) $ 0.47 Third Quarter 1,806,017 327,129 0.60 Second Quarter 1,604,448 278,318 0.52 First Quarter 1,462,299 210,164 0.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 1,342,746 $ 59,204 (2) $ 0.11 Third Quarter 1,254,197 84,596 0.16 Second Quarter 1,039,944 13,401 (3) 0.03 First Quarter 853,436 (91,940 ) (0.19 ) (1) Includes settlement costs of $48.8 million and an impairment of long lived assets charge of $17.3 million. (2) Includes settlement costs of $175.7 million, net of a $63.2 million recovery of legal expenses . (3) Includes impairment of long lived assets of $11.3 million, net settlement gains of $58.4 million and a charitable contribution of $50.0 million. Subsequent Events In January 2011, Broadcom and CSR plc agreed to settle all litigation and legal proceedings between the parties and their affiliates, including our subsidiary Global Locate, Inc. and CSRs subsidiary SiRF Technology, Inc. The parties have sought dismissal of their various pending actions in U.S. District Court, and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), based in Washington, D.C., and have agreed not to pursue further infringement actions against each other, or against third parties based on use of each others products, for a period of five years. We will receive an initial payment of $5.0 million and payments of a maximum $12.5 million per year for five years. In January 2011, Broadcom and Wi Lan signed a binding term sheet resolving all litigation between the two companies. The two companies are drafting a definitive settlement, release and patent license agreement, which will be finalized in February 2011. A portion of the consideration has been recognized as a settlement cost and the remainder has been allocated to intellectual property rights which will be amortized over their estimated useful life, the impact of which is not expected to be material to our operating results. In January 2011, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the existing dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share on an annual basis) and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share payable to holders of our common stock. In February 2011, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement with an Investment Bank to repurchase $300 million dollars of our common stock. The majority of the shares repurchased under the ASR program will be immediately retired and, depending on the average daily volume weighted average price of our common stock during the specified term, we may receive additional shares back at the conclusion of the program. 54 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, reached a consensus on Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements, or ASU 2009 14. ASU 2009 13 modifies the requirements that must be met for an entity to recognize revenue from the sale of a delivered item that is part of a multiple element arrangement when other items have not yet been delivered. ASU 2009 13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third party evidence, or TPE, is available for that deliverable. In the absence of VSOE or TPE of the standalone selling price for one or more delivered or undelivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, entities are required to estimate the selling prices of those elements. Overall arrangement consideration is allocated to each element (both delivered and undelivered items) based on their relative selling prices, regardless of whether those selling prices are evidenced by VSOE or TPE or are based on the entitys estimated selling price. The residual method of allocating arrangement consideration has been eliminated. ASU 2009 14 modifies the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude from its scope tangible products that contain both software and non software components that function together to deliver a products essential functionality. We adopted the provisions of these ASUs effective January 1, 2010 and they did not have a material impact on our results of operations. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, or QSPE, revises conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale (e.g., loan participations), clarifies the derecognition criteria, eliminates special guidance for guaranteed mortgage securitizations, and changes the initial measurement of a transferors interest in transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that revises analysis for identifying the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, or VIE, by replacing the previous quantitative based analysis with a framework that is based more on qualitative judgments. The new guidance requires the primary beneficiary of a VIE to be identified as the party that both (i) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) has an obligation to absorb losses or a right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that expands the interim and annual disclosure requirements of fair value measurements, including the information about movement of assets between Level 1 and 2 of the three tier fair value hierarchy established under its fair value measurement guidance. This guidance also requires separate disclosure for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs using Level 3 methodologies. Except for the detailed disclosure in the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, we adopted the relevant provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010 the FASB reached a consensus on the Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition which provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective July 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,912,311 $ 1,765,982 $ 1,146,329 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 225,330 Short term marketable securities(1) 1,035,252 532,281 502,971 Long term marketable securities 1,400,706 438,616 962,090 $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,690,391 (1) Included in working capital. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2010 and 2009 Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.622 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1.397 billion at December 31, 2009 as a result of cash provided by operating activities, the proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt and our Class A common stock, partially offset by net purchases of marketable securities, the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beceem and Gigle, repurchases of our Class A common stock and our quarterly dividend payments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,370,826 $ 986,893 $ 919,615 Cash used in investing activities (2,178,033 ) (501,357 ) (745,382 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,032,537 (279,088 ) (1,170,160 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225,330 $ 206,448 $ (995,927 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 Operating Activities In 2010 our operating activities provided $1.371 billion in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1.082 billion and net non cash operating expenses of $636.6 million offset in part by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $347.6 million, which includes increases in accounts receivable of $286.7 million, increases in inventory of $208.1 million and our $160.5 million payment of previously accrued securities litigation settlement costs. In 2009 our operating activities provided $986.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $617.4 million in net non cash operating expenses, $304.2 million in net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities (including $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement) and net income of $65.3 million. Changes in assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 included the following: Days sales outstanding increased from 35 days to 38 days driven primarily by a variation in revenue linearity, as a larger percentage of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 56 Table of Contents Inventory days on hand increased from 52 days to 57 days due to our decision to increase inventory on hand to meet the anticipated growth in the demand for our products primarily in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. Accounts payable days outstanding decreased from 63 to 58 days resulting primarily from the timing of inventory purchases and vendor payments. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined by the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing Activities Investing activities used $2.178 billion in cash in 2010, which was primarily the result of $1.466 billion in net purchases of marketable securities, $599.5 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beeceem and Gigle and $108.9 million of capital equipment purchases, mostly to support our research and development efforts. Investing activities used $501.4 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $267.5 million, $165.3 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisition of Dune Networks and $67.0 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $1.033 billion in cash in 2010. This was primarily the result of $936.3 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan and $691.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt offset in part by $280.3 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, dividends paid of $163.4 million, repayment of debt assumed in our Teknovus acquisition of $14.6 million and $136.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units. Our financing activities used $279.1 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of $421.9 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program implemented in July 2008 and $84.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $227.2 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and number of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises and purchases are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. 57 Table of Contents Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) 1.500% fixed rate notes, due 2013 $ 300,000 $ $ 300,000 2.375% fixed rate notes, due 2015 400,000 400,000 Total $ 700,000 $ $ 700,000 In November 2010 we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $700 million. These Notes consist of $300 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.500% per annum, and $400 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable in cash semi annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2011. The 2013 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.694% and the 2015 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.444% and are recorded as long term debt, net of original issue discount. The discount and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of the Notes are amortized to interest expense over their respective terms. In connection with the Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to use our reasonable commercial efforts to file with the SEC an exchange offer registration statement to issue registered notes with substantially identical terms as the Notes in exchange for any outstanding Notes, or, under certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement to register the Notes. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the exchange offer or cause the shelf registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC, in each case on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the Notes offering. If we are unable to complete our registration statement, we will be subject to interest penalties. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a specified make whole premium as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Default can be triggered by any missed interest or principal payment, breach of covenant, or in certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. The Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to grant liens on assets; enter into sale and lease back transactions; or merge, consolidate or sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants, or any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Credit Facility We entered into a credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swingline loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500 million. The credit facility matures on November 19, 2014, at which time all outstanding revolving facility loans and accrued and unpaid interest must be repaid. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. Any advances under a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR, or BBA LIBOR, plus the Applicable Rate. Any advances under a US Dollar Base Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at rates that are equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% (b) Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (c) BBA LIBOR plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the actual daily unused amount of commitments. We may also, upon the agreement of the existing lenders, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties as well as affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Financial covenants require us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.00 to 1.00. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings We had no other significant notes or borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010: Payment Obligations by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 130,788 $ 91,639 $ 76,084 $ 66,012 $ 63,623 $ 169,657 $ 597,803 Inventory and related purchase obligations 567,169 567,169 Other obligations 121,751 18,357 12,701 12,699 12,700 12,609 190,817 Long term debt 300,000 400,000 700,000 Total $ 819,708 $ 109,996 $ 388,785 $ 78,711 $ 476,323 $ 182,266 $ 2,055,789 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017 with an aggregate rent of $149.6 million (included in the table above). Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Unrecognized tax benefits were $187.5 million of which $22.5 million would result in potential cash payment of taxes and $165.0 million would result in a reduction in net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We are not including any amount related to uncertain tax positions in the table presented above because of the difficulty in making reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of settlements with the respective taxing authorities. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential tax penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Prospective Capital Needs We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the issuance of common stock through our employee stock option and purchase plans, will be 59 Table of Contents sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, repurchases of our Class A common stock and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or increase our existing credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies; the unavailability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their levels of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; the overall levels of sales of our semiconductor products, licensing revenue, income from the Qualcomm Agreement and product gross margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; payment of cash dividends; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; volume price discounts and customer rebates; intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; licensing royalties payable by us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Company manages its total portfolio to encompass a diversified pool of investment grade securities to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may continue to negatively impact our investment income. To assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $22.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.8 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2010 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in short term interest rates would not have a material impact on our revolving credit facility, which bears a floating interest rate. This sensitivity analysis assumes all other variables will remain constant in future periods. Our Senior Notes bear fixed interest rates, and therefore, would not be subject to interest rate risk. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of $2.591 billion held domestically, with the remaining balance of $1.467 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. There may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the United States. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. (2) Includes royalties of $19.0 million, $149.2 million and $31.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007, which was completed in March 2009. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the calculation of net income per share. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Gross Margin Data Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % 51.0 % 51.0 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 51.5 51.0 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Supplemental Data on Stock Based Compensation Expense Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 $ 24,545 $ 24,997 $ 26,470 $ 24,589 Research and development 341,733 351,884 358,018 353,649 307,096 Selling, general and administrative 118,789 119,918 126,359 139,533 136,679 The tables above set forth our selected consolidated financial data. We prepared this information using the consolidated financial statements of Broadcom for the five years ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of acquisitions commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. You should read this selected consolidated financial data together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes contained in this Report and in our prior and subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as the section of this Report and our other reports entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation (including our subsidiaries, referred to collectively in this Report as Broadcom, we, our and us) is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip, or SoC, and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers in each of our reportable segments: Broadband Communications (Home), Mobile Wireless (Hand) and Infrastructure Networking (Infrastructure). Our Mobile Wireless reportable segment comprises our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity businesses. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into products used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. Our diverse product portfolio includes: Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Highly integrated solutions for the connected home, including set top boxes and media servers, residential gateways, home networking, femtocells, high definition TV platforms, Blu ray Disc players and digital video recorders (DVRs). Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Low power, high performance and highly integrated solutions powering the mobile ecosystem, including Wi Fi and Bluetooth, cellular modems, personal navigation and global positioning, near field communications, multimedia and application processing, and mobile power management solutions. Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Highly integrated solutions to carriers, service providers, enterprises, small to medium businesses and data centers for network infrastructure needs, including switches and physical layer (PHY) devices for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; switch fabric solutions; and high speed controllers. Our product revenue consists principally of sales of semiconductor devices and, to a lesser extent, software licenses and royalties, development, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our product sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our product sales occurs through distributors. Our licensing revenue and income is generated from the licensing of our intellectual property, of which the vast majority to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm Incorporated. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless ended in March 2009 and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into similar arrangements in the future. At December 31, 2010 we had deferred income of $47.1 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement. The following table details the amount of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless and income from the Qualcomm Agreement that was recognized or is scheduled to be recognized from 2008 to 2013: Recognized Scheduled to be Recognized 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ $ 170,611 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 856,413 Licensing revenue from Verizon Wireless 149,232 18,968 168,200 $ 149,232 $ 189,579 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 1,024,613 26 Table of Contents Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment or devices incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of our acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these acquisitions. Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 In 2010 our net income was $1.082 billion as compared to net income of $65.3 million in 2009, a difference of $1.017 billion. The increase in profitability was the direct result of a broad based increase in net revenue of 51.8% in 2010, as compared to 2009. In addition, our total gross margin increased 100 basis points in 2010, as compared to 2009. Other 2010 highlights include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009. We generated cash flow from operations of $1.371 billion in 2010. In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. We paid $163.4 million in dividends in 2010. In February 2010, as part of Broadcoms regular annual equity compensation review program, our Compensation Committee granted 10.1 million shares subject to equity awards, which included 2.2 million employee stock options and 7.9 million restricted stock units. At the date of grant, the amount of unearned stock based compensation expense associated with these awards was $247.6 million and was estimated to be expensed from 2010 through 2014. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset the dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. Under this program we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $32.32 per share in 2010. We repurchased an additional 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $29.75, which completed our share repurchase program announced in July 2008. In March 2010 we acquired Teknovus, Inc., or Teknovus, a leading supplier of Ethernet Passive Optical Network chipsets and software for approximately $109.3 million, exclusive of $9.2 million of cash acquired. We also assumed $14.6 million of debt which was subsequently repaid. In July 2010 we acquired Innovision Research Technology PLC, or Innovision, a near field communication, or NFC, technology company for $49.8 million, exclusive of $1.8 million of cash acquired. In November 2010 we completed a private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015. We also entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. 27 Table of Contents In November 2010 we acquired Percello Ltd., or Percello, a company that develops femtocell SoC solutions for $84.6 million, exclusive of $1.7 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $12.0 million in additional consideration to former Percello shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Percello entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.1 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Percello shareholders. We also issued 0.1 million restricted stock units to certain former employees of Percello who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $3.1 million, of which $0.2 million was recorded as goodwill, and $2.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next four years. In November 2010 we acquired Beceem Communications, Inc., or Beceem, a company that develops SoC solutions for LTE and WiMAX 4G connectivity for $301.8 million, exclusive of $11.8 million of cash acquired. We assumed Beceems equity plan and subsequently issued 0.8 million Broadcom stock options. The stock options had a fair value of $22.6 million, of which $0.7 million was recorded as goodwill and $21.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. In December 2010 we acquired Gigle Networks Inc., or Gigle, a company that develops SoC solutions for home networking over power lines for $75.8 million, exclusive of $1.4 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $8.0 million in additional consideration to former Gigle shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Gigle entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.9 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Gigle shareholders. We issued restricted stock units to certain former employees of Gigle who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $1.1 million, of which $0.1 million was recorded as goodwill, and $1.0 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. We also issued employee stock options with a fair value of $0.7 million which will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. Business Enterprise Segments The following tables present details of our reportable segments and the All Other category: Reportable Segments Broadband Mobile Infrastructure All Communications Wireless Networking Other Consolidated (In thousands) Year ended December 31, 2010 Net revenue $ 2,134,373 $ 2,889,226 $ 1,587,775 $ 206,945 $ 6,818,319 Operating income (loss) 446,556 526,177 578,182 (469,055 ) 1,081,860 Year ended December 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 1,525,193 $ 1,719,998 $ 1,055,553 $ 189,579 $ 4,490,323 Operating income (loss) 180,392 116,882 287,837 (529,039 ) 56,072 Year ended December 31, 2008 Net revenue $ 1,722,671 $ 1,528,178 $ 1,258,044 $ 149,232 $ 4,658,125 Operating income (loss) 383,582 33,974 390,293 (635,719 ) 172,130 28 Table of Contents Included in the All Other category: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 206,945 $ 189,579 $ 149,232 Stock based compensation $ 483,024 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 58,594 30,744 19,249 Amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up 9,644 9,225 2,161 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 Charitable contribution 50,000 Employer payroll tax on certain stock option exercises 12,541 4,866 3,966 Miscellaneous corporate allocation variances 40,416 (17,428 ) 21,398 Total other operating costs and expenses $ 676,000 $ 718,618 $ 784,951 Total operating loss for the All Other category $ (469,055 ) $ (529,039 ) $ (635,719 ) For additional information about our business enterprise segments, see further discussion in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Impact Net Income Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: volume of product sales and corresponding gross margin; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; stock based compensation expense; licensing and income from intellectual property; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; amortization of purchased intangible assets; cash based incentive compensation expense; litigation costs and insurance recoveries, including our directors and officers insurance settlement; settlement costs or gains; adjustments to tax reserves and the results of income tax audits; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock, dividends and acquisitions of businesses; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; charitable contributions; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; restructuring costs or reversals thereof; and gain (loss) on strategic investments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation 29 Table of Contents expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, tax contingencies, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates, assumptions or judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements that include a combination of semiconductor products and other elements, judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. We allocate the arrangement consideration based on each elements relative fair value using vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, third party evidence, or estimated selling prices, as the basis of fair value. Revenue is recognized for the accounting units when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met. For further discussion, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer or third party warehouse reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our licensing revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our total net revenue and net income. We defer revenue and income when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include 30 Table of Contents amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Income from the Qualcomm Agreement. The Qualcomm Agreement as discussed above, is a multiple element arrangement. We allocated the amount to be received under the Qualcomm Agreement amongst several elements. A gain from the settlement of litigation was immediately recognized and approximated the value of awards determined by the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining consideration was predominantly associated with the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights, as well as the settlement of all other outstanding litigation, and is being recognized over the four year performance period as a single unit of accounting. The value associated with the transfer of intellectual property rights and other elements was treated as a single unit of accounting and, based on the predominant nature of these elements, recognized them within net revenue over the contractual performance period of four years, beginning in 2009 and extending through 2013. The elements included: (i) an exchange of intellectual property rights, including in certain circumstances, a series of covenants not to assert claims of patent infringement under future patents issued within one to four years of the execution date of the agreement, (ii) the assignment of certain existing patents by Broadcom to Qualcomm with Broadcom retaining a royalty free license under these patents, and (iii) the settlement of all outstanding litigation and claims between us and Qualcomm. We consider the Qualcomm Agreement as predominantly related to the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights. This conclusion was based on (a) the amounts specifically awarded by the courts for the patents that were the subject of litigation for which appeals had been substantially exhausted and (b) the extensive nature of the rights transferred to Qualcomm, both for our existing patent portfolio and for the patents we would develop during the next one to four years. In addition, we obtained a third party valuation of the intellectual property rights. The inputs and assumptions we used in this valuation were from a market participant perspective and included projected revenue, royalty rates, estimated discount rates, useful lives and income tax rates, among others. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in our model requires significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors including the selection of industry comparables, market growth rates and other relevant factors. Changes in any number of these assumptions would have substantially changed the fair value assigned to the intellectual property rights. These inputs and assumptions represent managements best estimates at the time of the transaction. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions of revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end and when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our net revenue and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions of revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory Write Downs and Warranty Reserves. We write down the carrying value of our inventory to net realizable value for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be 31 Table of Contents impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our product gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. All share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, are recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. The fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Although we utilize the Black Scholes model, which meets established requirements, the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Prior to 2010, our dividend yield assumption excluded dividend payouts. In 2010 we began to pay quarterly dividends and included that assumption in our fair value calculations. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant less our expected dividend yield. We evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Effective January 1, 2009 in process research and development, or IPRD, and defensive assets acquired are capitalized. Prior to 2009 IPRD was expensed immediately. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization thereof. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry, (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results or (v) the abandonment of any of our acquired in process research and development projects. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management 32 Table of Contents judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction of income tax expense in the period of such realization. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. Income tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold are recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold are derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement costs. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact product gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and or our ability to settle disputes on terms acceptable to us are subject to significant uncertainty. Should we choose to pay significant sums in settling a dispute or should material legal matters be resolved against the Company, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue: Product revenue 96.7 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 3.0 3.8 Licensing revenue 0.3 1.0 3.7 Total net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue 48.2 49.2 47.5 Research and development 25.7 34.2 32.1 Selling, general and administrative 8.7 10.7 11.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.4 0.3 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 0.3 0.4 3.7 Settlement costs, net 0.8 2.7 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) 0.2 In process research and development 0.9 Charitable contribution 1.1 Total operating costs and expenses 84.1 98.8 96.3 Income from operations 15.9 1.2 3.7 Interest income, net 0.1 0.3 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 16.1 1.6 4.8 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.1 0.2 Net income 15.9 % 1.5 % 4.6 % The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Cost of product revenue 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Research and development 5.0 7.8 7.7 Selling, general and administrative 1.7 2.7 2.7 34 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 6,589,270 96.7 % $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 2,316,544 54.2 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 206,696 3.0 170,611 3.8 36,085 21.2 Licensing revenue 22,353 0.3 46,986 1.0 (24,633 ) (52.4 ) Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 3,284,213 48.2 % $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 1,073,654 48.6 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 1.9 % Total gross margin 51.8 % 50.8 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,889,139 97.1 % $ 1,748,692 96.8 % $ 140,447 8.0 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Licensing revenue 4,742 0.2 5,651 0.3 (909 ) (16.1 ) Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 955,711 49.1 % $ 871,951 48.3 % $ 83,760 9.6 Product gross margin 49.4 % 50.1 % (0.7 )% Total gross margin 50.9 % 51.7 % (0.8 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. Our product revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor devices. Our Broadband Communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our Mobile Wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our Infrastructure Networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Our licensing revenue and income from the Qualcomm Agreement is generated from the licensing of intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 2,134,373 31.3 % $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 609,180 39.9 % Mobile Wireless 2,889,226 42.4 1,719,998 38.3 1,169,228 68.0 Infrastructure Networking 1,587,775 23.3 1,055,553 23.5 532,222 50.4 All other(1) 206,945 3.0 189,579 4.2 17,366 9.2 Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into in April 2009, (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009 and (iii) other revenue from certain patent agreements, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for our wireless connectivity combo solutions, as well as the ramp of our cellular products. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. The increase in our All Other category was the result of a $36.1 million increase in income received from the Qualcomm Agreement, offset in part by a $19.0 million decrease in licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless, which was completed in March 2009. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2010 2010 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 576,966 29.7 % $ 561,519 31.1 % $ 15,447 2.8 % Mobile Wireless 907,484 46.7 797,395 44.2 110,089 13.8 Infrastructure Networking 409,431 20.9 395,429 21.8 14,002 3.5 All other(1) 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for cellular products and our wireless combo solutions. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $526.1 million, or 7.7% of net revenue and $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2010 was attributable to the increase in net revenue along with a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reversed accrued rebates of $4.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Table of Contents From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the seasonal variations in consumer products and changes in the overall economic environment. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete products and negatively impact our cash flow. For these and other reasons, our total net revenue and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. Concentration of Net Revenue Income from the Qualcomm Agreement is expected to be recognized through 2013 as follows: 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 479,107 The following table presents details of our product net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product sales through direct sales force(1) 77.6 % 78.8 % 83.6 % Product sales through distributors(2) 22.4 21.2 16.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes 7.8%, 7.1% and 6.1% of product sales maintained under hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Includes 7.9%, 8.1% and 4.4% of product sales maintained under fulfillment distributor arrangements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Apple 11.1 % * * Samsung 10.0 10.3 % * Five largest customers as a group 38.9 34.6 35.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our total net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Product revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of product revenue was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 China (exclusive of Hong Kong) 30.4 % 28.3 % 29.5 % Hong Kong 26.0 24.8 27.9 Other Asia (primarily in Singapore and Taiwan) 36.8 37.6 29.3 Europe (primarily in Sweden, Hungary, France, Romania) 2.4 2.7 2.8 Other 1.6 1.4 2.3 97.2 % 94.8 % 91.8 % 37 Table of Contents All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Factors That May Impact Net Revenue The demand for our products and the subsequent recognition of net revenue has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and distributors, to manage inventory; the timing of our distributors shipments to their customers or when products are taken by our customers under hubbing arrangements; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt/ramp our products and technologies; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; and the availability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Cost of product revenue comprises the cost of our semiconductor devices, which consists of the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, as well as royalties paid to vendors for use of their technology. Also included in cost of product revenue is the amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. Product gross margin is product revenue less cost of product revenue divided by product revenue and does not include income from the Qualcomm Agreement and revenue from the licensing of intellectual property. Total gross margin is total net revenue less cost of product revenue divided by total net revenue. Product gross margin increased from 48.3% in 2009 to 50.2% in 2010 primarily as a result of cost reductions in each of our reportable segments as we continued our transition to 40 nanometer process technology. Other factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base (ii) higher margins in our infrastructure and networking products offset by (iii) a net increase in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $7.3 million due to an increase in the provision for digital TV products. Product gross margin decreased from 50.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2010 to 49.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of (i) a net increase in warranty provisions of $10.8 million primarily related to specific claims recorded to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a significant component derived from a recent acquisition, offset in part by (ii) a reduction in the excess and obsolete inventory provision of $5.7 million, and fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base. Factors That May Impact Product and Total Gross Margin Our product and total gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; introduction of products with lower margins; the effects of competition; 38 Table of Contents the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories and their relationship to demand volatility; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and other fixed costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; our ability to advance to the next technology node faster than our competitors; licensing royalties payable by us; product warranty costs; fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets; amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our product and total gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 928,956 13.6 % $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 158,844 20.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Development and design costs 273,682 4.0 211,494 4.7 62,188 29.4 Other 217,952 3.1 201,428 4.5 16,524 8.2 Research and development $ 1,762,323 25.7 % $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 227,405 14.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 1,300 personnel; bringing total headcount to approximately 6,800 personnel. This represents a 23.6% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, and was predominantly in each of our reportable segments as a result of both organic growth and our 2010 acquisitions. Salary increases were also attributable to increased incentive compensation. Development and design costs increased due to increases in mask, prototyping, testing and engineering design tool costs stemming from our continued transition of products to 40 nanometer process technologies. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing, development and tape out of various products. We expect research and development costs to increase as a result of growth in, and diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. 39 Table of Contents We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. The majority of our new products are now designed in 40 nanometer CMOS processes, and we are preparing for the 28 nanometer process. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 240,176 3.5 % $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 45,840 23.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) Legal and accounting fees 139,795 2.1 110,205 2.5 29,590 26.8 Other 91,812 1.4 54,903 1.2 36,909 67.2 Selling, general and administrative $ 590,572 8.7 % $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 111,210 23.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 300 personnel, which represents a 23.1% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, as well as higher incentive compensation. The increase in legal and accounting fees in 2010 was primarily related to a 2009 recovery of legal fees of $91.3 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, which reduced our 2009 legal fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and prior years stock option backdating securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings and various other transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in the Other line item in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in facilities and travel expenses. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 0.3 % $ 24,545 0.5 % $ (2,043 ) (8.3 )% Research and development 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Selling, general and administrative 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) $ 483,024 7.0 % $ 496,347 11.0 % $ (13,323 ) (2.7 ) 40 Table of Contents We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards, resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. The following table presents details of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 through 2014 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2010: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Unearned stock based compensation $ 420,700 $ 252,097 $ 129,556 $ 23,329 $ $ 825,682 See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 31,024 0.5 % $ 16,196 0.4 % $ 14,828 91.6 % Other operating expenses 27,570 0.4 14,548 0.3 13,022 89.5 $ 58,594 0.9 % $ 30,744 0.7 % $ 27,850 90.6 The following table presents details of the amortization of existing purchased intangible assets, including IPRD that is currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 and thereafter. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of product revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 58,508 $ 71,915 $ 62,917 $ 48,462 $ 29,101 $ 37,251 $ 308,154 Other operating expenses 27,810 10,057 3,359 3,376 3,444 9,640 57,686 $ 86,318 $ 81,972 $ 66,276 $ 51,838 $ 32,545 $ 46,891 $ 365,840 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill in October 2010, 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology, which includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, 41 Table of Contents which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating appropriate present value techniques. Specifically, the income approach valuations included the following assumptions: Valuation Assumptions 2010 2009 2008 Discount Rate 12.0% 17.7% 12.0% 17.5% 15.0% 17.0% Perpetual Growth Rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.0% Tax 17.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk Free Rate 3.4% 4.0% 4.3% Peer Company Beta 1.26 1.52 1.24 1.69 1.83 2.50 Based on our 2010 and 2009 impairment assessments, we believe we have no at risk goodwill. At December 31, 2010 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless (which includes our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity reporting units) reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $594.9 million, $623.3 million and $447.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.0 million, $587.5 million and $259.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.8 million, $536.4 million and $259.1 million, respectively. Upon completion of the October 2010 and 2009 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit. In 2010 we recorded an impairment charge of $17.3 million related to a Sunext technology license that was acquired in 2008. In 2009 we recorded impairment charges to customer relationships, developed technology and certain other assets of $18.9 million related to the acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD. The primary factor contributing to these impairment charges was the continued reduction in our revenue outlook for these businesses, and the related decrease to the estimated cash flows indentified with the impaired assets. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the difference between the fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the Mobile Platforms reporting unit was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit at that time. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the assets and their fair values. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on this evaluation we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property and equipment of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit in the three months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The primary factors contributing to the Mobile Platforms reporting unit impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to calculate the estimated fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs (Gains) We recorded settlement costs of $52.6 million in 2010 primarily related to licensing and settlement agreements and certain employment tax items. In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions. We subsequently entered into a stipulation and agreement of settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions dated as of April 30, 2010, which provides for the claims against Broadcom and its current and former officers and directors to be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and subsequent payment was made in June 2010 into a settlement fund. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In Process Research and Development In 2010 we capitalized $55.6 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisitions of Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle. There were no identifiable IPRD assets related to the acquisition of Innovision. In 2009 we capitalized $50.9 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc., which was reclassified to developed technology in 2010 upon completion and will be amortized to cost of product revenue. Upon completion of each project, the related IPRD assets will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. If any of the projects are abandoned, we will be required to impair the related IPRD asset. We expensed $42.4 million in 2008 related to in process research and development costs related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD. In 2008 the amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition under then prevailing accounting standards as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of the IPRD for our acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance of our products. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence of and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account the expected product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. The 2008 IPRD charge included only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the technology. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as 43 Table of Contents developed technology, represented the fair values and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the valuations of IPRD at the acquisition dates for the acquisitions completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2010 Acquisitions Gigle Networks Powerline Communication Solutions 12 % 1.4 $ 9.9 18 % $ 4.8 Percello LTE/Femtocell solutions 10 % 3.2 $ 10.2 17 % $ 10.1 Beceem LTE/WiMAX 51 % 1.1 $ 32.3 22 % $ 29.3 Teknovus Ethernet Passive Optical Network (EPON) chipsets and software 11 % 0.9 $ 19.3 26 % $ 10.6 2009 Acquisitions Dune Networks High density switching line card solutions 85 % 1.0 $ 1.9 21 % $ 50.4 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 % 1.0 $ 6.9 24 % $ 31.5 As of the acquisition date, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2010 all development projects from our Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle acquisitions were still in process. IPRD will be reclassified to developed technology and amortized to cost of product revenue upon completion. We completed all other development projects related to our prior acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Charitable Contribution In April 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs, as well as a broad range of community services. In 2009 we made an unrestricted grant of $50.0 million to the Foundation upon receiving a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of the exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense for the contribution of $50.0 million in 2009. We did not make any contributions to the Foundation in 2010. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 9,032 0.1 % $ 13,901 0.3 % $ (4,869 ) (35.0 )% Other income (expense), net 6,428 0.1 2,218 0.1 4,210 189.8 Interest income, net, reflects interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances offset by interest expense on our long term debt. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains on strategic investments and foreign currency transactions. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of interest expense related to long term debt and the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009 to $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock purchase rights and proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt. The average interest rates earned in 2010 and 2009 were 0.43% and 0.63%, respectively. The decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment. The increase in other income, net was primarily the result of a gain on strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 15,520 0.2 % $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 8,590 124.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2010 and 2009. Our effective tax rates were 1.4% and 9.6% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2010 and 2009 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2010 and 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in 2009, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $11.9 million and $7.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, as a result of the May 27, 2009 and March 22, 2010 decisions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case concerning Xilinx (discussed below), we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $3 million in 2010 to reverse the approximately $3 million of related exposure previously recorded in 2009. As previously disclosed, on May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals originally held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. As a result of this May 27, 2009 decision, we reduced our gross deferred tax assets for federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and capitalized research and development costs, increased our deferred tax assets for certain tax credits, and increased our tax provision in 2009 by approximately $3 million. However, on January 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and subsequently issued a new decision in favor of Xilinx on March 22, 2010, thereby affirming the August 30, 2005 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. Consequently, during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reversed the amounts we had previously recorded in 2009 related to the courts May 27, 2009 decision. As a result, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our tax provision by approximately $3 million and adjusted certain of our gross deferred tax assets. Included in these adjustments was an increase in our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $665 million and $455 million, respectively, an increase of federal and state capitalized research and development costs of approximately $10 million each, an increase in our deferred tax assets relating to stock based compensation of approximately $65 million, and a decrease in certain tax credits of approximately $10 million. These changes in our gross deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance adjustment, and therefore did not result in any change in our net deferred tax assets or our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010. In addition to the adjustments related to the March 22, 2010 Xilinx decision, in the three months ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our federal and state net operating losses by approximately $60 million for adjustments to our intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for the years ended 2001 to 2009. This reduction to our net operating losses was fully offset by a corresponding adjustment to 45 Table of Contents the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheet and no adjustment to our income tax expense. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $16.7 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination and assessment of taxes by federal and most state tax authorities. In significant foreign jurisdictions, the 2002 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $330.0 million, $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.61, $0.44 and $0.54 for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $187.5 million which included $22.5 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. Approximately $12.3 million of the tax benefit, if recognized would be credited to shareholders equity. The remaining $152.7 million, if recognized, would not result in a tax benefit since it would be fully offset with a valuation allowance. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2010, and in total, as of December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities for potential penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. In 2010 we had a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $272.5 million relating to increases to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years primarily resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit March 22, 2010 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In addition, we had an increase in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $38.9 million primarily relating to transactions with certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380 million as of December 31, 2009. In 2010 we reversed approximately $272.5 million of this amount due to the March 22, 2010 decision in the Xilinx case as discussed above, and recorded $23.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from a 2010 change in judgment regarding certain tax accruals. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 46 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin; Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 4,485,239 96.3 % $ (212,513 ) (4.7 )% Income from Qualcomm Agreement 170,611 3.8 170,611 Licensing revenue 46,986 1.0 172,886 3.7 (125,900 ) (72.8 ) Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) Cost of product revenue(1) $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 2,213,015 47.5 % $ (2,456 ) (0.1 ) Product gross margin 48.3 % 50.7 % (2.4 )% Total gross margin 50.8 % 52.5 % (1.7 )% Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,283,434 95.6 % $ 1,194,745 95.3 % $ 88,689 7.4 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Licensing revenue 7,638 0.6 7,778 0.6 (140 ) (1.8 ) Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 630,259 46.9 % $ 615,349 49.1 % $ 14,910 2.4 Product gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 2.4 % Total gross margin 53.1 % 50.9 % 2.2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ (197,478 ) (11.5 )% Mobile Wireless 1,719,998 38.3 1,528,178 32.8 191,820 12.6 Infrastructure Networking 1,055,553 23.5 1,258,044 27.0 (202,491 ) (16.1 ) All other(1) 189,579 4.2 149,232 3.2 40,347 27.0 Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) 47 Table of Contents (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 and (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital set top boxes and digital TV products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our high definition DVD products. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the ramp in the second half of 2009 of our cellular products and wireless combo solutions, offset in part by a decrease in demand for VoIP solutions. The decrease in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from a broad based decline in demand for our controller and Ethernet switch products. In 2009 we recognized $170.6 million of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and $19.0 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless. In 2008 we recognized $149.2 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless which was completed in March 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue and $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2009 was attributable to a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We reversed accrued rebates of $10.5 million and $39.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2009 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 449,233 33.5 % $ 394,863 31.5 % $ 54,370 13.8 % Mobile Wireless 502,037 37.4 520,613 41.5 (18,576 ) (3.6 ) Infrastructure Networking 339,802 25.3 287,047 22.9 52,755 18.4 All other(1) 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The decrease in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for our Bluetooth products, due to seasonality, as certain of our customers prepared for the upcoming holiday season in three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted principally from improving customer order patterns particularly for our Ethernet switch products. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Product gross margin decreased from 50.7% in 2008 to 48.3% in 2009 primarily as a result of changes in product mix from our more profitable Infrastructure Networking products to our less profitable Mobile Wireless products. Other factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin were: (i) a net decrease in the reversal of rebates of $29.1 million related to unclaimed rebates, (ii) fixed costs being spread over a lower revenue base, offset in part by (iii) a net decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $18.8 million. During 2008 we recorded a $33.7 million provision as a result of the significant reduction in demand in the 48 Table of Contents second half of 2008, whereas the $14.9 million provision recorded during 2009 was primarily related to inventory of our DTV business. Product gross margin increased from 48.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2009 to 50.9% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) product mix, (ii) a reduction in net excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $9.5 million, offset in part by (iii) an increase in the warranty provision of $2.4 million. Research and Development Expense The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 719,922 15.5 % $ 50,190 7.0 % Stock based compensation 351,884 7.8 358,018 7.7 (6,134 ) (1.7 ) Development and design costs 211,494 4.7 211,928 4.5 (434 ) (0.2 ) Other 201,428 4.5 207,800 4.4 (6,372 ) (3.1 ) Research and development $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 37,250 2.5 The increase in salaries and benefits was the result of an increase in our incentive plan costs due primarily to the stronger than anticipated performance in relative revenue growth as compared to an identified segment of the semiconductor industry and better than anticipated cash flow from operations generated in 2009. This was offset in part by the impact of our restructuring plan in January and October 2009 and our not having an annual salary merit increase in 2009. Development and design costs were relatively flat; however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 198,411 4.3 % $ (4,075 ) (2.1 )% Stock based compensation 119,918 2.7 126,359 2.7 (6,441 ) (5.1 ) Legal and accounting fees 110,205 2.5 141,369 3.0 (31,164 ) (22.0 ) Other 54,903 1.2 76,978 1.7 (22,075 ) (28.7 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 543,117 11.7 % $ (63,755 ) (11.7 ) The decrease in legal and accounting fees related to the increase in net recoveries of legal expenses of $74.6 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, offset in part by an increase in legal fees associated with litigation related to our stock options matter. See below for further discussion of our directors and officers insurance policies. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in facility and travel and entertainment expenses. 49 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 24,545 $ 24,997 Research and development 351,884 358,018 Selling, general and administrative 119,918 126,359 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 % of total net revenue 11.1 % 10.9 % Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 16,196 $ 15,857 Other operating expenses 14,548 3,392 $ 30,744 $ 19,249 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill and other long lived assets in October 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. For a description of the 2008 impairments including the valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Settlement Costs, Net In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The 50 Table of Contents settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) In light of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, in 2009 we implemented restructuring plans that included a reduction in our worldwide headcount of 200 people and an additional 120 people related to our DTV business. These reductions in headcount were completed in 2009. We recorded $7.5 million in net restructuring costs in 2009, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce across multiple locations and functions and, to a lesser extent, the closure of one of our facilities. Included in the 2009 net restructuring expense were charges of $3.7 million related to stock based compensation expense incurred in connection with the modification of certain share based awards. In addition, we reversed restructuring costs of $4.2 million, as part of a contractual obligation due from AMD to reimburse us for certain restructuring actions taken during a stipulated post acquisition period. At December 31, 2009 our restructuring liability was $1.3 million. In Process Research and Development For a description of our 2009 and 2008 IPRD activities including our valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under In Process Research and Development for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Charitable Contribution In 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support mathematics and science programs, as well as a broad range of community services. We received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense of $50.0 million related to our unrestricted grant to the Foundation. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 13,901 0.3 % $ 52,201 1.1 % $ (38,300 ) (73.4 )% Other income (expense), net 2,218 0.1 (2,016 ) 4,234 (210.0 ) The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008 to $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, including the $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement. The average interest rates earned in 2009 and 2008 were 0.63% and 2.42%, respectively. The 2009 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the current interest rate environment (Federal Funds Rate nearly 0%) and reinvestment rates being significantly lower than in 2008. 51 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 7,521 0.2 % $ (591 ) (7.9 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2009 and 2008. Our effective tax rates were 9.6% and 3.4% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2009 and 2008 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by a $1.5 billion dividend resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of this $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings, we incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008. However, due to the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets in 2008 (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the repatriation. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in both 2009 and 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009, and a provision contained in the Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was enacted in July, 2008. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $7.6 million and $6.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009, we recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million associated with the exposure resulting from a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case involving Xilinx, Inc. as discussed below. On May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. The case is subject to further appeal. The potential impact to Broadcom, should the IRS prevail, of including such stock based compensation expenses in our research and development cost sharing arrangements would be additional income for federal and state purposes from January 1, 2001 forward, and may result in additional related federal and state income and franchise taxes. We adjusted our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, our federal and state capitalized research and development costs and our deferred tax positions, and recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million for additional federal and state income and franchise taxes to reflect this decision. We reduced our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $600.0 million and $380.0 million, respectively, and we reduced our deferred tax assets for both federal and state capitalized research and development costs by approximately $10.0 million each. Additionally, in 2009 we reduced our deferred tax asset relating to stock based compensation expenses by approximately $60.0 million, and increased our deferred tax asset for certain tax credits by approximately $10.0 million, with each of these amounts offset by a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to deferred tax assets. As a result of the expensing of share based payments since January 1, 2006, our deferred tax assets exclude certain excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation, that are components of our research and development credits, capitalized research and development, and net operating loss carryovers. If and when these tax benefits are realized, a credit is recorded to shareholders equity. The federal and state net operating losses and the capitalized research and development costs we reduced as a result of the decision in the Xilinx case represent such excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation and therefore do not result in an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. 52 Table of Contents On January 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and stated that it would reconsider the matter at a future date to be determined. In accounting for income tax uncertainties, only information that is available at our reporting date of December 31, 2009 could be considered in measuring our tax position. For details regarding the effects of subsequent 2010 decisions of the Ninth Circuit in Xilinx, see the discussion included under Provision for Income Taxes for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $11.2 million at December 31, 2009 and net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380.0 million, of which approximately $280.0 million would be credited to shareholders equity if ultimately sustained and utilized to reduce our income tax liabilities because it relates to excess deductions from employee stock options. The remaining portion of these tax benefits, approximately $100.0 million, was previously offset by a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If these tax positions are not sustained, there will be no net effect on our tax provision because of the related valuation allowance. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by federal and most state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, the 2001 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. In addition, our employment tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.44 and $0.54 for 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2009 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $400.8 million which included $117.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2009, and in total, as of December 31, 2009, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $11.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. We had a $376.9 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits relating to reductions to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years. These reductions primarily resulted from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit May 27, 2009 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Other than the possible reversal of the increases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to the decision in the Xilinx case, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Total Net Income Per Revenue (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 1,945,555 $ 266,189 (1) $ 0.47 Third Quarter 1,806,017 327,129 0.60 Second Quarter 1,604,448 278,318 0.52 First Quarter 1,462,299 210,164 0.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 1,342,746 $ 59,204 (2) $ 0.11 Third Quarter 1,254,197 84,596 0.16 Second Quarter 1,039,944 13,401 (3) 0.03 First Quarter 853,436 (91,940 ) (0.19 ) (1) Includes settlement costs of $48.8 million and an impairment of long lived assets charge of $17.3 million. (2) Includes settlement costs of $175.7 million, net of a $63.2 million recovery of legal expenses . (3) Includes impairment of long lived assets of $11.3 million, net settlement gains of $58.4 million and a charitable contribution of $50.0 million. Subsequent Events In January 2011, Broadcom and CSR plc agreed to settle all litigation and legal proceedings between the parties and their affiliates, including our subsidiary Global Locate, Inc. and CSRs subsidiary SiRF Technology, Inc. The parties have sought dismissal of their various pending actions in U.S. District Court, and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), based in Washington, D.C., and have agreed not to pursue further infringement actions against each other, or against third parties based on use of each others products, for a period of five years. We will receive an initial payment of $5.0 million and payments of a maximum $12.5 million per year for five years. In January 2011, Broadcom and Wi Lan signed a binding term sheet resolving all litigation between the two companies. The two companies are drafting a definitive settlement, release and patent license agreement, which will be finalized in February 2011. A portion of the consideration has been recognized as a settlement cost and the remainder has been allocated to intellectual property rights which will be amortized over their estimated useful life, the impact of which is not expected to be material to our operating results. In January 2011, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the existing dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share on an annual basis) and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share payable to holders of our common stock. In February 2011, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement with an Investment Bank to repurchase $300 million dollars of our common stock. The majority of the shares repurchased under the ASR program will be immediately retired and, depending on the average daily volume weighted average price of our common stock during the specified term, we may receive additional shares back at the conclusion of the program. 54 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, reached a consensus on Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements, or ASU 2009 14. ASU 2009 13 modifies the requirements that must be met for an entity to recognize revenue from the sale of a delivered item that is part of a multiple element arrangement when other items have not yet been delivered. ASU 2009 13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third party evidence, or TPE, is available for that deliverable. In the absence of VSOE or TPE of the standalone selling price for one or more delivered or undelivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, entities are required to estimate the selling prices of those elements. Overall arrangement consideration is allocated to each element (both delivered and undelivered items) based on their relative selling prices, regardless of whether those selling prices are evidenced by VSOE or TPE or are based on the entitys estimated selling price. The residual method of allocating arrangement consideration has been eliminated. ASU 2009 14 modifies the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude from its scope tangible products that contain both software and non software components that function together to deliver a products essential functionality. We adopted the provisions of these ASUs effective January 1, 2010 and they did not have a material impact on our results of operations. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, or QSPE, revises conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale (e.g., loan participations), clarifies the derecognition criteria, eliminates special guidance for guaranteed mortgage securitizations, and changes the initial measurement of a transferors interest in transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that revises analysis for identifying the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, or VIE, by replacing the previous quantitative based analysis with a framework that is based more on qualitative judgments. The new guidance requires the primary beneficiary of a VIE to be identified as the party that both (i) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) has an obligation to absorb losses or a right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that expands the interim and annual disclosure requirements of fair value measurements, including the information about movement of assets between Level 1 and 2 of the three tier fair value hierarchy established under its fair value measurement guidance. This guidance also requires separate disclosure for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs using Level 3 methodologies. Except for the detailed disclosure in the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, we adopted the relevant provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010 the FASB reached a consensus on the Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition which provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective July 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,912,311 $ 1,765,982 $ 1,146,329 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 225,330 Short term marketable securities(1) 1,035,252 532,281 502,971 Long term marketable securities 1,400,706 438,616 962,090 $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,690,391 (1) Included in working capital. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2010 and 2009 Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.622 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1.397 billion at December 31, 2009 as a result of cash provided by operating activities, the proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt and our Class A common stock, partially offset by net purchases of marketable securities, the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beceem and Gigle, repurchases of our Class A common stock and our quarterly dividend payments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,370,826 $ 986,893 $ 919,615 Cash used in investing activities (2,178,033 ) (501,357 ) (745,382 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,032,537 (279,088 ) (1,170,160 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225,330 $ 206,448 $ (995,927 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 Operating Activities In 2010 our operating activities provided $1.371 billion in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1.082 billion and net non cash operating expenses of $636.6 million offset in part by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $347.6 million, which includes increases in accounts receivable of $286.7 million, increases in inventory of $208.1 million and our $160.5 million payment of previously accrued securities litigation settlement costs. In 2009 our operating activities provided $986.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $617.4 million in net non cash operating expenses, $304.2 million in net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities (including $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement) and net income of $65.3 million. Changes in assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 included the following: Days sales outstanding increased from 35 days to 38 days driven primarily by a variation in revenue linearity, as a larger percentage of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 56 Table of Contents Inventory days on hand increased from 52 days to 57 days due to our decision to increase inventory on hand to meet the anticipated growth in the demand for our products primarily in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. Accounts payable days outstanding decreased from 63 to 58 days resulting primarily from the timing of inventory purchases and vendor payments. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined by the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing Activities Investing activities used $2.178 billion in cash in 2010, which was primarily the result of $1.466 billion in net purchases of marketable securities, $599.5 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beeceem and Gigle and $108.9 million of capital equipment purchases, mostly to support our research and development efforts. Investing activities used $501.4 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $267.5 million, $165.3 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisition of Dune Networks and $67.0 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $1.033 billion in cash in 2010. This was primarily the result of $936.3 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan and $691.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt offset in part by $280.3 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, dividends paid of $163.4 million, repayment of debt assumed in our Teknovus acquisition of $14.6 million and $136.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units. Our financing activities used $279.1 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of $421.9 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program implemented in July 2008 and $84.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $227.2 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and number of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises and purchases are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. 57 Table of Contents Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) 1.500% fixed rate notes, due 2013 $ 300,000 $ $ 300,000 2.375% fixed rate notes, due 2015 400,000 400,000 Total $ 700,000 $ $ 700,000 In November 2010 we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $700 million. These Notes consist of $300 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.500% per annum, and $400 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable in cash semi annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2011. The 2013 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.694% and the 2015 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.444% and are recorded as long term debt, net of original issue discount. The discount and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of the Notes are amortized to interest expense over their respective terms. In connection with the Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to use our reasonable commercial efforts to file with the SEC an exchange offer registration statement to issue registered notes with substantially identical terms as the Notes in exchange for any outstanding Notes, or, under certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement to register the Notes. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the exchange offer or cause the shelf registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC, in each case on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the Notes offering. If we are unable to complete our registration statement, we will be subject to interest penalties. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a specified make whole premium as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Default can be triggered by any missed interest or principal payment, breach of covenant, or in certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. The Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to grant liens on assets; enter into sale and lease back transactions; or merge, consolidate or sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants, or any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Credit Facility We entered into a credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swingline loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500 million. The credit facility matures on November 19, 2014, at which time all outstanding revolving facility loans and accrued and unpaid interest must be repaid. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. Any advances under a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR, or BBA LIBOR, plus the Applicable Rate. Any advances under a US Dollar Base Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at rates that are equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% (b) Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (c) BBA LIBOR plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the actual daily unused amount of commitments. We may also, upon the agreement of the existing lenders, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties as well as affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Financial covenants require us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.00 to 1.00. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings We had no other significant notes or borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010: Payment Obligations by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 130,788 $ 91,639 $ 76,084 $ 66,012 $ 63,623 $ 169,657 $ 597,803 Inventory and related purchase obligations 567,169 567,169 Other obligations 121,751 18,357 12,701 12,699 12,700 12,609 190,817 Long term debt 300,000 400,000 700,000 Total $ 819,708 $ 109,996 $ 388,785 $ 78,711 $ 476,323 $ 182,266 $ 2,055,789 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017 with an aggregate rent of $149.6 million (included in the table above). Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Unrecognized tax benefits were $187.5 million of which $22.5 million would result in potential cash payment of taxes and $165.0 million would result in a reduction in net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We are not including any amount related to uncertain tax positions in the table presented above because of the difficulty in making reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of settlements with the respective taxing authorities. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential tax penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Prospective Capital Needs We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the issuance of common stock through our employee stock option and purchase plans, will be 59 Table of Contents sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, repurchases of our Class A common stock and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or increase our existing credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies; the unavailability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their levels of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; the overall levels of sales of our semiconductor products, licensing revenue, income from the Qualcomm Agreement and product gross margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; payment of cash dividends; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; volume price discounts and customer rebates; intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; licensing royalties payable by us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Company manages its total portfolio to encompass a diversified pool of investment grade securities to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may continue to negatively impact our investment income. To assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $22.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.8 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2010 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in short term interest rates would not have a material impact on our revolving credit facility, which bears a floating interest rate. This sensitivity analysis assumes all other variables will remain constant in future periods. Our Senior Notes bear fixed interest rates, and therefore, would not be subject to interest rate risk. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of $2.591 billion held domestically, with the remaining balance of $1.467 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. There may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the United States. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report and the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Overview Broadcom Corporation (including our subsidiaries, referred to collectively in this Report as Broadcom, we, our and us) is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industrys broadest portfolio of state of the art system on a chip, or SoC, and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. We sell our products to leading wired and wireless communications manufacturers in each of our reportable segments: Broadband Communications (Home), Mobile Wireless (Hand) and Infrastructure Networking (Infrastructure). Our Mobile Wireless reportable segment comprises our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity businesses. Because we leverage our technologies across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be incorporated into products used in multiple markets. We utilize independent foundries and third party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor products. Our diverse product portfolio includes: Broadband Communications (Solutions for the Home) Highly integrated solutions for the connected home, including set top boxes and media servers, residential gateways, home networking, femtocells, high definition TV platforms, Blu ray Disc players and digital video recorders (DVRs). Mobile Wireless (Solutions for the Hand) Low power, high performance and highly integrated solutions powering the mobile ecosystem, including Wi Fi and Bluetooth, cellular modems, personal navigation and global positioning, near field communications, multimedia and application processing, and mobile power management solutions. Infrastructure Networking (Solutions for Infrastructure) Highly integrated solutions to carriers, service providers, enterprises, small to medium businesses and data centers for network infrastructure needs, including switches and physical layer (PHY) devices for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; switch fabric solutions; and high speed controllers. Our product revenue consists principally of sales of semiconductor devices and, to a lesser extent, software licenses and royalties, development, support and maintenance agreements, data services and cancellation fees. The majority of our product sales occur through the efforts of our direct sales force. The remaining balance of our product sales occurs through distributors. Our licensing revenue and income is generated from the licensing of our intellectual property, of which the vast majority to date has been derived from agreements with two customers, Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm Incorporated. The licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless ended in March 2009 and the income from the Qualcomm Agreement is non recurring and will terminate in 2013. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into similar arrangements in the future. At December 31, 2010 we had deferred income of $47.1 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement. The following table details the amount of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless and income from the Qualcomm Agreement that was recognized or is scheduled to be recognized from 2008 to 2013: Recognized Scheduled to be Recognized 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ $ 170,611 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 856,413 Licensing revenue from Verizon Wireless 149,232 18,968 168,200 $ 149,232 $ 189,579 $ 206,695 $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 1,024,613 26 Table of Contents Product Cycles. The cycle for test, evaluation and adoption of our products by customers can range from three to more than nine months, with an additional three to more than twelve months before a customer commences volume production of equipment or devices incorporating our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur expenses for research and development, selling, general and administrative efforts, and investments in inventory, to the time we generate corresponding revenue, if any. The rate of new orders may vary significantly from month to month and quarter to quarter. If anticipated sales or shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisition Strategy. An element of our business strategy involves the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies and products and bring them to market, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing product offerings, augment our engineering workforce, and enhance our technological capabilities. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic opportunities as they arise, including acquisitions and other business combination transactions, strategic relationships, capital infusions and the purchase or sale of assets. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of our acquired companies commencing on their respective acquisition dates. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these acquisitions. Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 In 2010 our net income was $1.082 billion as compared to net income of $65.3 million in 2009, a difference of $1.017 billion. The increase in profitability was the direct result of a broad based increase in net revenue of 51.8% in 2010, as compared to 2009. In addition, our total gross margin increased 100 basis points in 2010, as compared to 2009. Other 2010 highlights include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009. We generated cash flow from operations of $1.371 billion in 2010. In January 2010 our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. We paid $163.4 million in dividends in 2010. In February 2010, as part of Broadcoms regular annual equity compensation review program, our Compensation Committee granted 10.1 million shares subject to equity awards, which included 2.2 million employee stock options and 7.9 million restricted stock units. At the date of grant, the amount of unearned stock based compensation expense associated with these awards was $247.6 million and was estimated to be expensed from 2010 through 2014. In February 2010 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an evergreen share repurchase program intended to offset the dilution associated with our stock incentive plans. Under this program we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $32.32 per share in 2010. We repurchased an additional 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $29.75, which completed our share repurchase program announced in July 2008. In March 2010 we acquired Teknovus, Inc., or Teknovus, a leading supplier of Ethernet Passive Optical Network chipsets and software for approximately $109.3 million, exclusive of $9.2 million of cash acquired. We also assumed $14.6 million of debt which was subsequently repaid. In July 2010 we acquired Innovision Research Technology PLC, or Innovision, a near field communication, or NFC, technology company for $49.8 million, exclusive of $1.8 million of cash acquired. In November 2010 we completed a private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015. We also entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. 27 Table of Contents In November 2010 we acquired Percello Ltd., or Percello, a company that develops femtocell SoC solutions for $84.6 million, exclusive of $1.7 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $12.0 million in additional consideration to former Percello shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Percello entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.1 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Percello shareholders. We also issued 0.1 million restricted stock units to certain former employees of Percello who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $3.1 million, of which $0.2 million was recorded as goodwill, and $2.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next four years. In November 2010 we acquired Beceem Communications, Inc., or Beceem, a company that develops SoC solutions for LTE and WiMAX 4G connectivity for $301.8 million, exclusive of $11.8 million of cash acquired. We assumed Beceems equity plan and subsequently issued 0.8 million Broadcom stock options. The stock options had a fair value of $22.6 million, of which $0.7 million was recorded as goodwill and $21.9 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. In December 2010 we acquired Gigle Networks Inc., or Gigle, a company that develops SoC solutions for home networking over power lines for $75.8 million, exclusive of $1.4 million of cash acquired. We may be required to pay up to $8.0 million in additional consideration to former Gigle shareholders if certain revenue levels are achieved by the former Gigle entity in 2011. The purchase price includes a liability of $0.9 million, which represents the estimated acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration payable to former Gigle shareholders. We issued restricted stock units to certain former employees of Gigle who became employees of Broadcom upon the closing. The restricted stock units had a fair value of $1.1 million, of which $0.1 million was recorded as goodwill, and $1.0 million will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. We also issued employee stock options with a fair value of $0.7 million which will be recognized as stock based compensation expense over the next three years. Business Enterprise Segments The following tables present details of our reportable segments and the All Other category: Reportable Segments Broadband Mobile Infrastructure All Communications Wireless Networking Other Consolidated (In thousands) Year ended December 31, 2010 Net revenue $ 2,134,373 $ 2,889,226 $ 1,587,775 $ 206,945 $ 6,818,319 Operating income (loss) 446,556 526,177 578,182 (469,055 ) 1,081,860 Year ended December 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 1,525,193 $ 1,719,998 $ 1,055,553 $ 189,579 $ 4,490,323 Operating income (loss) 180,392 116,882 287,837 (529,039 ) 56,072 Year ended December 31, 2008 Net revenue $ 1,722,671 $ 1,528,178 $ 1,258,044 $ 149,232 $ 4,658,125 Operating income (loss) 383,582 33,974 390,293 (635,719 ) 172,130 28 Table of Contents Included in the All Other category: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 206,945 $ 189,579 $ 149,232 Stock based compensation $ 483,024 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 58,594 30,744 19,249 Amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up 9,644 9,225 2,161 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 19,045 18,895 171,593 Settlement costs, net 52,625 118,468 15,810 Restructuring costs (reversals) 111 7,501 (1,000 ) In process research and development 42,400 Charitable contribution 50,000 Employer payroll tax on certain stock option exercises 12,541 4,866 3,966 Miscellaneous corporate allocation variances 40,416 (17,428 ) 21,398 Total other operating costs and expenses $ 676,000 $ 718,618 $ 784,951 Total operating loss for the All Other category $ (469,055 ) $ (529,039 ) $ (635,719 ) For additional information about our business enterprise segments, see further discussion in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Impact Net Income Our net income has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: volume of product sales and corresponding gross margin; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; stock based compensation expense; licensing and income from intellectual property; deferral of revenue under multiple element arrangements; amortization of purchased intangible assets; cash based incentive compensation expense; litigation costs and insurance recoveries, including our directors and officers insurance settlement; settlement costs or gains; adjustments to tax reserves and the results of income tax audits; the loss of interest income resulting from lower average interest rates and investment balance reductions resulting from expenditures on repurchases of our Class A common stock, dividends and acquisitions of businesses; impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; charitable contributions; other than temporary impairment of marketable securities and strategic investments; restructuring costs or reversals thereof; and gain (loss) on strategic investments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, rebates, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns and allowances, warranty reserves, inventory reserves, stock based compensation 29 Table of Contents expense, goodwill and purchased intangible asset valuations, strategic investments, deferred income tax asset valuation allowances, uncertain tax positions, tax contingencies, self insurance, restructuring costs, litigation and other loss contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the recording of revenue, costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. We believe the following are critical accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates, assumptions or judgments: Net Revenue. We recognize product revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred, (iii) our price to the customer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collection of the resulting accounts receivable is reasonably assured. These criteria are usually met at the time of product shipment. However, we do not recognize revenue when any significant obligations remain. Customer purchase orders and or contracts are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify product delivery. We assess whether a price is fixed or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess the collectibility of our accounts receivable based primarily upon the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In arrangements that include a combination of semiconductor products and other elements, judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. We allocate the arrangement consideration based on each elements relative fair value using vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, third party evidence, or estimated selling prices, as the basis of fair value. Revenue is recognized for the accounting units when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met. For further discussion, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below. A portion of our sales is made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and or rights of return. These pricing credits and or rights of return provisions prevent us from being able to reasonably estimate the final price of the inventory to be sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, the price to the customer is not fixed or determinable at the time we deliver products to our distributors. Accordingly, product revenue from sales made through these distributors is not recognized until the distributors ship the product to their customers. We also maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customers projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer or third party warehouse reports it has removed our product from the warehouse to be incorporated into its end products. Historically, we have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided to us, our future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and customers with hubbing arrangements provide us with periodic data regarding product, price, quantity, and customers when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products that they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our licensing revenue we rely on data provided by the licensee. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our total net revenue and net income. We defer revenue and income when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and or services have been performed. Deferred revenue does not include 30 Table of Contents amounts from products delivered to distributors that the distributors have not yet sold through to their end customers. Income from the Qualcomm Agreement. The Qualcomm Agreement as discussed above, is a multiple element arrangement. We allocated the amount to be received under the Qualcomm Agreement amongst several elements. A gain from the settlement of litigation was immediately recognized and approximated the value of awards determined by the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining consideration was predominantly associated with the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights, as well as the settlement of all other outstanding litigation, and is being recognized over the four year performance period as a single unit of accounting. The value associated with the transfer of intellectual property rights and other elements was treated as a single unit of accounting and, based on the predominant nature of these elements, recognized them within net revenue over the contractual performance period of four years, beginning in 2009 and extending through 2013. The elements included: (i) an exchange of intellectual property rights, including in certain circumstances, a series of covenants not to assert claims of patent infringement under future patents issued within one to four years of the execution date of the agreement, (ii) the assignment of certain existing patents by Broadcom to Qualcomm with Broadcom retaining a royalty free license under these patents, and (iii) the settlement of all outstanding litigation and claims between us and Qualcomm. We consider the Qualcomm Agreement as predominantly related to the transfer of current and future intellectual property rights. This conclusion was based on (a) the amounts specifically awarded by the courts for the patents that were the subject of litigation for which appeals had been substantially exhausted and (b) the extensive nature of the rights transferred to Qualcomm, both for our existing patent portfolio and for the patents we would develop during the next one to four years. In addition, we obtained a third party valuation of the intellectual property rights. The inputs and assumptions we used in this valuation were from a market participant perspective and included projected revenue, royalty rates, estimated discount rates, useful lives and income tax rates, among others. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in our model requires significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors including the selection of industry comparables, market growth rates and other relevant factors. Changes in any number of these assumptions would have substantially changed the fair value assigned to the intellectual property rights. These inputs and assumptions represent managements best estimates at the time of the transaction. Sales Returns, Pricing Adjustments and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We record reductions of revenue for estimated product returns and pricing adjustments, such as competitive pricing programs and rebates, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data, specific criteria included in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential rebates at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We reverse the accrual of unclaimed rebate amounts as specific rebate programs contractually end and when we believe unclaimed rebates are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. Thus the reversal of unclaimed rebates may have a positive impact on our net revenue and net income in subsequent periods. Additional reductions of revenue would result if actual product returns or pricing adjustments exceed our estimates. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of any customer were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of its ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required. Inventory Write Downs and Warranty Reserves. We write down the carrying value of our inventory to net realizable value for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs could be required. Under the hubbing arrangements that we maintain with certain customers, we own inventory that is physically located in a customers or third partys warehouse. As a result, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be 31 Table of Contents impaired, which would cause our total inventory turns to decrease. In that event, our expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory could increase and our cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our products typically carry a one to three year warranty. We establish reserves for estimated product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation has been and may in the future be affected by product failure rates, product recalls, repair or field replacement costs and additional development costs incurred in correcting any product failure, as well as possible claims for consequential costs. Should actual product failure rates, use of materials or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty reserves could be required. In that event, our product gross margins would be reduced. Stock Based Compensation Expense. All share based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, are recognized in our financial statements based upon their respective grant date fair values. The fair value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Although we utilize the Black Scholes model, which meets established requirements, the fair values generated by the model may not be indicative of the actual fair values of our equity awards as it does not consider certain factors important to those awards to employees, such as continued employment and periodic vesting requirements as well as limited transferability. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards utilizing the Black Scholes model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use the implied volatility for traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model. Our selection of the implied volatility approach is based on the availability of data regarding actively traded options on our stock as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of fair value than historical volatility. The expected life of the stock options is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Prior to 2010, our dividend yield assumption excluded dividend payouts. In 2010 we began to pay quarterly dividends and included that assumption in our fair value calculations. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the closing market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant less our expected dividend yield. We evaluate the assumptions used to value stock awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. To the extent that we grant additional equity securities to employees or we assume unvested securities in connection with any acquisitions, our stock based compensation expense will be increased by the additional unearned compensation resulting from those additional grants or acquisitions. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Effective January 1, 2009 in process research and development, or IPRD, and defensive assets acquired are capitalized. Prior to 2009 IPRD was expensed immediately. The amounts and useful lives assigned to intangible assets acquired, other than goodwill, impact the amount and timing of future amortization thereof. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry, (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results or (v) the abandonment of any of our acquired in process research and development projects. We evaluate these assets, including purchased intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives, on an annual basis in the fourth quarter or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In our annual impairment review, we primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our intangible assets. Significant management 32 Table of Contents judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. It is possible, however, that the plans may change and estimates used may prove to be inaccurate. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, our U.S. tax losses after tax deductions for stock based compensation, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets is appropriate in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we record valuation allowances to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if we realize a deferred tax asset that currently carries a valuation allowance, we may record a reduction of income tax expense in the period of such realization. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. Income tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not threshold are recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not threshold are derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which we determine that a recorded tax liability is less than we expect the ultimate assessment to be. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. Litigation and Settlement Costs. We are involved in disputes, litigation and other legal proceedings. We prosecute and defend these matters aggressively. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation and or substantial settlement costs. In addition, the resolution of intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or to obtain a license under the other partys intellectual property rights that could require one time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact product gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and or our ability to settle disputes on terms acceptable to us are subject to significant uncertainty. Should we choose to pay significant sums in settling a dispute or should material legal matters be resolved against the Company, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue: Product revenue 96.7 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 3.0 3.8 Licensing revenue 0.3 1.0 3.7 Total net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of product revenue 48.2 49.2 47.5 Research and development 25.7 34.2 32.1 Selling, general and administrative 8.7 10.7 11.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 0.4 0.3 0.1 Impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets 0.3 0.4 3.7 Settlement costs, net 0.8 2.7 0.3 Restructuring costs (reversals) 0.2 In process research and development 0.9 Charitable contribution 1.1 Total operating costs and expenses 84.1 98.8 96.3 Income from operations 15.9 1.2 3.7 Interest income, net 0.1 0.3 1.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 0.1 Income before income taxes 16.1 1.6 4.8 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.1 0.2 Net income 15.9 % 1.5 % 4.6 % The following table presents details of product and total gross margin as a percentage of product and total revenue, respectively: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 50.7 % Total gross margin 51.8 50.8 52.5 The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense as a percentage of net revenue included in each functional line item in the consolidated statements of income data above: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Cost of product revenue 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Research and development 5.0 7.8 7.7 Selling, general and administrative 1.7 2.7 2.7 34 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 6,589,270 96.7 % $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 2,316,544 54.2 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 206,696 3.0 170,611 3.8 36,085 21.2 Licensing revenue 22,353 0.3 46,986 1.0 (24,633 ) (52.4 ) Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 3,284,213 48.2 % $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 1,073,654 48.6 Product gross margin 50.2 % 48.3 % 1.9 % Total gross margin 51.8 % 50.8 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,889,139 97.1 % $ 1,748,692 96.8 % $ 140,447 8.0 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Licensing revenue 4,742 0.2 5,651 0.3 (909 ) (16.1 ) Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 955,711 49.1 % $ 871,951 48.3 % $ 83,760 9.6 Product gross margin 49.4 % 50.1 % (0.7 )% Total gross margin 50.9 % 51.7 % (0.8 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. Net Revenue. Our product revenue is generated principally by sales of our semiconductor devices. Our Broadband Communications products include solutions for cable modems, DSL applications, digital cable, direct broadcast satellite and IP set top boxes, digital TVs and high definition DVD and personal video recording devices. Our Mobile Wireless products include wireless LAN, cellular, touch controller, GPS, Bluetooth, mobile multimedia and applications processors, mobile power management and VoIP solutions. Our Infrastructure Networking products include Ethernet transceivers, controllers, switches, broadband network and security processors and server chipsets. Our licensing revenue and income from the Qualcomm Agreement is generated from the licensing of intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 2,134,373 31.3 % $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 609,180 39.9 % Mobile Wireless 2,889,226 42.4 1,719,998 38.3 1,169,228 68.0 Infrastructure Networking 1,587,775 23.3 1,055,553 23.5 532,222 50.4 All other(1) 206,945 3.0 189,579 4.2 17,366 9.2 Total net revenue $ 6,818,319 100.0 % $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 2,327,996 51.8 (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into in April 2009, (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009 and (iii) other revenue from certain patent agreements, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes and broadband modems. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for our wireless connectivity combo solutions, as well as the ramp of our cellular products. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. The increase in our All Other category was the result of a $36.1 million increase in income received from the Qualcomm Agreement, offset in part by a $19.0 million decrease in licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless, which was completed in March 2009. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2010 2010 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 576,966 29.7 % $ 561,519 31.1 % $ 15,447 2.8 % Mobile Wireless 907,484 46.7 797,395 44.2 110,089 13.8 Infrastructure Networking 409,431 20.9 395,429 21.8 14,002 3.5 All other(1) 51,674 2.7 51,674 2.9 Total net revenue $ 1,945,555 100.0 % $ 1,806,017 100.0 % $ 139,538 7.7 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the increase in demand for cellular products and our wireless combo solutions. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for our Ethernet switching products. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $526.1 million, or 7.7% of net revenue and $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2010 was attributable to the increase in net revenue along with a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We anticipate that accrued rebates will vary in future periods based upon the level of overall sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs. We reversed accrued rebates of $4.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Table of Contents From time to time, our key customers place large orders causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. We expect that these fluctuations will continue and that they may be exaggerated by the seasonal variations in consumer products and changes in the overall economic environment. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third partys warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete products and negatively impact our cash flow. For these and other reasons, our total net revenue and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and prior periods may not necessarily be indicative of future net revenue and results of operations. Concentration of Net Revenue Income from the Qualcomm Agreement is expected to be recognized through 2013 as follows: 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Income from Qualcomm Agreement $ 206,695 $ 186,012 $ 86,400 $ $ 479,107 The following table presents details of our product net revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Product sales through direct sales force(1) 77.6 % 78.8 % 83.6 % Product sales through distributors(2) 22.4 21.2 16.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes 7.8%, 7.1% and 6.1% of product sales maintained under hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) Includes 7.9%, 8.1% and 4.4% of product sales maintained under fulfillment distributor arrangements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Apple 11.1 % * * Samsung 10.0 10.3 % * Five largest customers as a group 38.9 34.6 35.8 % * Less than 10% of net revenue. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our total net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. Product revenue derived from shipments to international destinations, as a percentage of product revenue was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 China (exclusive of Hong Kong) 30.4 % 28.3 % 29.5 % Hong Kong 26.0 24.8 27.9 Other Asia (primarily in Singapore and Taiwan) 36.8 37.6 29.3 Europe (primarily in Sweden, Hungary, France, Romania) 2.4 2.7 2.8 Other 1.6 1.4 2.3 97.2 % 94.8 % 91.8 % 37 Table of Contents All of our revenue to date has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Factors That May Impact Net Revenue The demand for our products and the subsequent recognition of net revenue has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and distributors, to manage inventory; the timing of our distributors shipments to their customers or when products are taken by our customers under hubbing arrangements; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt/ramp our products and technologies; the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; and the availability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Cost of product revenue comprises the cost of our semiconductor devices, which consists of the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers manufactured by independent foundries, costs associated with our purchase of assembly, test and quality assurance services and packaging materials for semiconductor products, as well as royalties paid to vendors for use of their technology. Also included in cost of product revenue is the amortization of purchased technology, and manufacturing overhead, including costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, product warranty costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and stock based compensation expense for personnel engaged in manufacturing support. Product gross margin is product revenue less cost of product revenue divided by product revenue and does not include income from the Qualcomm Agreement and revenue from the licensing of intellectual property. Total gross margin is total net revenue less cost of product revenue divided by total net revenue. Product gross margin increased from 48.3% in 2009 to 50.2% in 2010 primarily as a result of cost reductions in each of our reportable segments as we continued our transition to 40 nanometer process technology. Other factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base (ii) higher margins in our infrastructure and networking products offset by (iii) a net increase in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $7.3 million due to an increase in the provision for digital TV products. Product gross margin decreased from 50.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2010 to 49.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of (i) a net increase in warranty provisions of $10.8 million primarily related to specific claims recorded to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a significant component derived from a recent acquisition, offset in part by (ii) a reduction in the excess and obsolete inventory provision of $5.7 million, and fixed costs being spread over a higher revenue base. Factors That May Impact Product and Total Gross Margin Our product and total gross margin has been affected in the past, and may continue to be affected in the future, by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our product mix and volume of product sales (including sales to high volume customers); the positions of our products in their respective life cycles; introduction of products with lower margins; the effects of competition; 38 Table of Contents the effects of competitive pricing programs and rebates; provisions for excess and obsolete inventories and their relationship to demand volatility; manufacturing cost efficiencies and inefficiencies; fluctuations in direct product costs such as silicon wafer costs and assembly, packaging and testing costs, and other fixed costs; our ability to create cost advantages through successful integration and convergence; our ability to advance to the next technology node faster than our competitors; licensing royalties payable by us; product warranty costs; fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets; amortization of acquired inventory valuation step up; and reversals of unclaimed rebates and warranty reserves. Typically our newly introduced products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. Our product and total gross margin may also be impacted by additional stock based compensation expense and changes therein, as discussed below, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets related to future acquisitions. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in research, design and development activities, including stock based compensation expense. Development and design costs consist primarily of costs related to engineering design tools, mask and prototyping costs, testing and subcontracting costs. In addition, we incur costs related to facilities and equipment expense, among other items. The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 928,956 13.6 % $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 158,844 20.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Development and design costs 273,682 4.0 211,494 4.7 62,188 29.4 Other 217,952 3.1 201,428 4.5 16,524 8.2 Research and development $ 1,762,323 25.7 % $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 227,405 14.8 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 1,300 personnel; bringing total headcount to approximately 6,800 personnel. This represents a 23.6% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, and was predominantly in each of our reportable segments as a result of both organic growth and our 2010 acquisitions. Salary increases were also attributable to increased incentive compensation. Development and design costs increased due to increases in mask, prototyping, testing and engineering design tool costs stemming from our continued transition of products to 40 nanometer process technologies. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing, development and tape out of various products. We expect research and development costs to increase as a result of growth in, and diversification of, the markets we serve, new product opportunities, the number of design wins that go into production, changes in our compensation policies, and any expansion into new markets and technologies. 39 Table of Contents We remain committed to significant research and development efforts to extend our technology leadership in the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate. The majority of our new products are now designed in 40 nanometer CMOS processes, and we are preparing for the 28 nanometer process. We currently hold more than 4,800 U.S. and more than 2,000 foreign patents and have more than 7,800 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. We maintain an active program of filing for and acquiring additional U.S. and foreign patents in wired and wireless communications and other fields. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel related expenses, including stock based compensation expense, legal and other professional fees, facilities expenses and communications expenses. The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 240,176 3.5 % $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 45,840 23.6 % Stock based compensation(1) 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) Legal and accounting fees 139,795 2.1 110,205 2.5 29,590 26.8 Other 91,812 1.4 54,903 1.2 36,909 67.2 Selling, general and administrative $ 590,572 8.7 % $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 111,210 23.2 (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The increase in salaries and benefits was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount of approximately 300 personnel, which represents a 23.1% increase from our December 31, 2009 levels, as well as higher incentive compensation. The increase in legal and accounting fees in 2010 was primarily related to a 2009 recovery of legal fees of $91.3 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, which reduced our 2009 legal fees. Legal fees consist primarily of attorneys fees and expenses related to our outstanding intellectual property and prior years stock option backdating securities litigation, patent prosecution and filings and various other transactions. Legal fees fluctuate from period to period due to the nature, scope, timing and costs of the matters in litigation. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in the Other line item in the above table is primarily attributable to an increase in facilities and travel expenses. Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 22,502 0.3 % $ 24,545 0.5 % $ (2,043 ) (8.3 )% Research and development 341,733 5.0 351,884 7.8 (10,151 ) (2.9 ) Selling, general and administrative 118,789 1.7 119,918 2.7 (1,129 ) (0.9 ) $ 483,024 7.0 % $ 496,347 11.0 % $ (13,323 ) (2.7 ) 40 Table of Contents We recognize stock based compensation expense related to share based awards, resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions over their respective service periods. Unearned stock based compensation is principally amortized ratably over the service periods of the underlying stock options and restricted stock units, generally 48 months and 16 quarters, respectively. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested awards, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. The following table presents details of unearned stock based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 through 2014 related to unvested share based payment awards at December 31, 2010: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Unearned stock based compensation $ 420,700 $ 252,097 $ 129,556 $ 23,329 $ $ 825,682 See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of activity related to share based awards. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 31,024 0.5 % $ 16,196 0.4 % $ 14,828 91.6 % Other operating expenses 27,570 0.4 14,548 0.3 13,022 89.5 $ 58,594 0.9 % $ 30,744 0.7 % $ 27,850 90.6 The following table presents details of the amortization of existing purchased intangible assets, including IPRD that is currently estimated to be expensed in 2011 and thereafter. If we acquire additional purchased intangible assets in the future, our cost of product revenue or operating expenses will be increased by the amortization of those assets. Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 58,508 $ 71,915 $ 62,917 $ 48,462 $ 29,101 $ 37,251 $ 308,154 Other operating expenses 27,810 10,057 3,359 3,376 3,444 9,640 57,686 $ 86,318 $ 81,972 $ 66,276 $ 51,838 $ 32,545 $ 46,891 $ 365,840 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill in October 2010, 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology, which includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were based on discrete financial forecasts developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts were estimated using a terminal value calculation, 41 Table of Contents which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each identified reporting unit and considered long term earnings growth rates for publicly traded peer companies. Future cash flows were discounted to present value by incorporating appropriate present value techniques. Specifically, the income approach valuations included the following assumptions: Valuation Assumptions 2010 2009 2008 Discount Rate 12.0% 17.7% 12.0% 17.5% 15.0% 17.0% Perpetual Growth Rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.0% Tax 17.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk Free Rate 3.4% 4.0% 4.3% Peer Company Beta 1.26 1.52 1.24 1.69 1.83 2.50 Based on our 2010 and 2009 impairment assessments, we believe we have no at risk goodwill. At December 31, 2010 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless (which includes our Mobile Platforms and Wireless Connectivity reporting units) reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $594.9 million, $623.3 million and $447.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.0 million, $587.5 million and $259.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 our Broadband Communications, Infrastructure Networking and Mobile Wireless reporting segments had the following goodwill balances, $483.8 million, $536.4 million and $259.1 million, respectively. Upon completion of the October 2010 and 2009 annual impairment assessments, we determined no impairment was indicated as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value. Upon completion of the October 2008 assessment, we determined that the carrying value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. Because indicators of impairment existed for this business group, we performed the second step of the test to determine the fair value of the goodwill of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit. In 2010 we recorded an impairment charge of $17.3 million related to a Sunext technology license that was acquired in 2008. In 2009 we recorded impairment charges to customer relationships, developed technology and certain other assets of $18.9 million related to the acquisition of the DTV Business of AMD. The primary factor contributing to these impairment charges was the continued reduction in our revenue outlook for these businesses, and the related decrease to the estimated cash flows indentified with the impaired assets. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined in the same manner utilized to estimate the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As part of the second step of the impairment test performed in 2008, we calculated the fair value of certain assets, including developed technology, IPRD assets and customer relationships. To determine the implied value of goodwill, fair values were allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit as of October 1, 2008. The implied fair value of goodwill was measured as the difference between the fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. The impairment loss for the Mobile Platforms reporting unit was measured by the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of the goodwill. Based on this assessment, we recorded a charge of $149.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008, which represented all of the related goodwill of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit at that time. We also reviewed other long lived tangible assets for impairment. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. The amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the assets and their fair values. Fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. We utilized appraisals to assess the reasonableness of the fair values estimated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Based on this evaluation we recorded an impairment charge of $19.8 million related to the property and equipment of our Mobile Platforms reporting unit in the three months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The primary factors contributing to the Mobile Platforms reporting unit impairment charges were the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization. We adjusted our assumptions used to calculate the estimated fair value of the Mobile Platforms reporting unit to account for these macroeconomic changes. Settlement Costs (Gains) We recorded settlement costs of $52.6 million in 2010 primarily related to licensing and settlement agreements and certain employment tax items. In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions. We subsequently entered into a stipulation and agreement of settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions dated as of April 30, 2010, which provides for the claims against Broadcom and its current and former officers and directors to be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and subsequent payment was made in June 2010 into a settlement fund. For further discussion of litigation matters, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In Process Research and Development In 2010 we capitalized $55.6 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisitions of Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle. There were no identifiable IPRD assets related to the acquisition of Innovision. In 2009 we capitalized $50.9 million of IPRD costs primarily related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc., which was reclassified to developed technology in 2010 upon completion and will be amortized to cost of product revenue. Upon completion of each project, the related IPRD assets will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. If any of the projects are abandoned, we will be required to impair the related IPRD asset. We expensed $42.4 million in 2008 related to in process research and development costs related to our acquisitions of Sunext Design, Inc. and the DTV Business of AMD. In 2008 the amounts allocated to IPRD were determined through established valuation techniques used in the high technology industry and were expensed upon acquisition under then prevailing accounting standards as it was determined that the underlying projects had not reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses existed. The fair value of the IPRD for our acquisitions was determined using the income approach. Under the income approach, the expected future cash flows from each project under development are estimated and discounted to their net present values at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return. Significant factors considered in the calculation of the rate of return are the weighted average cost of capital and return on assets, as well as the risks inherent in the development process, including the likelihood of achieving technological success and market acceptance of our products. Each project was analyzed to determine the unique technological innovations, the existence of and reliance on core technology, the existence of any alternative future use or current technological feasibility, and the complexity, cost and time to complete the remaining development. Future cash flows for each project were estimated based on forecasted revenue and costs, taking into account the expected product life cycles, market penetration and growth rates. The 2008 IPRD charge included only the fair value of IPRD determined as of the respective acquisition dates. The fair value of developed technology is included in identifiable purchased intangible assets and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the technology. We believe the amounts recorded as IPRD, as well as 43 Table of Contents developed technology, represented the fair values and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for these projects as of the respective acquisition dates. The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the valuations of IPRD at the acquisition dates for the acquisitions completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008: Weighted Average Average Risk Estimated Estimated Estimated Adjusted Percent Time to Cost to Discount Company Acquired Development Projects Complete Complete Complete Rate IPRD (In years) (In millions) (In millions) 2010 Acquisitions Gigle Networks Powerline Communication Solutions 12 % 1.4 $ 9.9 18 % $ 4.8 Percello LTE/Femtocell solutions 10 % 3.2 $ 10.2 17 % $ 10.1 Beceem LTE/WiMAX 51 % 1.1 $ 32.3 22 % $ 29.3 Teknovus Ethernet Passive Optical Network (EPON) chipsets and software 11 % 0.9 $ 19.3 26 % $ 10.6 2009 Acquisitions Dune Networks High density switching line card solutions 85 % 1.0 $ 1.9 21 % $ 50.4 2008 Acquisitions Sunext Blu ray application 49 % 1.0 $ 4.3 20 % $ 10.9 DTV Business of AMD Xilleon product line 82 % 1.0 $ 6.9 24 % $ 31.5 As of the acquisition date, certain ongoing development projects were in process. The assumptions consist primarily of expected completion dates for the IPRD projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and revenue and expense projections for the products once they have entered the market. Research and development costs to bring the products of the acquired companies to technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. At December 31, 2010 all development projects from our Teknovus, Beceem, Percello and Gigle acquisitions were still in process. IPRD will be reclassified to developed technology and amortized to cost of product revenue upon completion. We completed all other development projects related to our prior acquisitions. Actual results to date have been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of the acquisitions. Charitable Contribution In April 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs, as well as a broad range of community services. In 2009 we made an unrestricted grant of $50.0 million to the Foundation upon receiving a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of the exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense for the contribution of $50.0 million in 2009. We did not make any contributions to the Foundation in 2010. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 9,032 0.1 % $ 13,901 0.3 % $ (4,869 ) (35.0 )% Other income (expense), net 6,428 0.1 2,218 0.1 4,210 189.8 Interest income, net, reflects interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances offset by interest expense on our long term debt. Other income (expense), net, primarily includes gains on strategic investments and foreign currency transactions. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of interest expense related to long term debt and the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009 to $4.058 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock purchase rights and proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt. The average interest rates earned in 2010 and 2009 were 0.43% and 0.63%, respectively. The decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment. The increase in other income, net was primarily the result of a gain on strategic investments. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Increase Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 15,520 0.2 % $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 8,590 124.0 % The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2010 and 2009. Our effective tax rates were 1.4% and 9.6% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2010 and 2009 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2010 and 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in 2009, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $11.9 million and $7.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, as a result of the May 27, 2009 and March 22, 2010 decisions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case concerning Xilinx (discussed below), we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $3 million in 2010 to reverse the approximately $3 million of related exposure previously recorded in 2009. As previously disclosed, on May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals originally held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. As a result of this May 27, 2009 decision, we reduced our gross deferred tax assets for federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and capitalized research and development costs, increased our deferred tax assets for certain tax credits, and increased our tax provision in 2009 by approximately $3 million. However, on January 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and subsequently issued a new decision in favor of Xilinx on March 22, 2010, thereby affirming the August 30, 2005 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. Consequently, during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reversed the amounts we had previously recorded in 2009 related to the courts May 27, 2009 decision. As a result, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our tax provision by approximately $3 million and adjusted certain of our gross deferred tax assets. Included in these adjustments was an increase in our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $665 million and $455 million, respectively, an increase of federal and state capitalized research and development costs of approximately $10 million each, an increase in our deferred tax assets relating to stock based compensation of approximately $65 million, and a decrease in certain tax credits of approximately $10 million. These changes in our gross deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance adjustment, and therefore did not result in any change in our net deferred tax assets or our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010. In addition to the adjustments related to the March 22, 2010 Xilinx decision, in the three months ended March 31, 2010, we reduced our federal and state net operating losses by approximately $60 million for adjustments to our intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for the years ended 2001 to 2009. This reduction to our net operating losses was fully offset by a corresponding adjustment to 45 Table of Contents the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheet and no adjustment to our income tax expense. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $16.7 million and $11.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination and assessment of taxes by federal and most state tax authorities. In significant foreign jurisdictions, the 2002 through 2010 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $330.0 million, $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.61, $0.44 and $0.54 for 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $187.5 million which included $22.5 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. Approximately $12.3 million of the tax benefit, if recognized would be credited to shareholders equity. The remaining $152.7 million, if recognized, would not result in a tax benefit since it would be fully offset with a valuation allowance. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2010, and in total, as of December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities for potential penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. In 2010 we had a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $272.5 million relating to increases to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years primarily resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit March 22, 2010 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In addition, we had an increase in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $38.9 million primarily relating to transactions with certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380 million as of December 31, 2009. In 2010 we reversed approximately $272.5 million of this amount due to the March 22, 2010 decision in the Xilinx case as discussed above, and recorded $23.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from a 2010 change in judgment regarding certain tax accruals. We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 46 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Net Revenue, Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin, and Total Gross Margin The following tables present net revenue, cost of product revenue, product gross margin and total gross margin; Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 4,272,726 95.2 % $ 4,485,239 96.3 % $ (212,513 ) (4.7 )% Income from Qualcomm Agreement 170,611 3.8 170,611 Licensing revenue 46,986 1.0 172,886 3.7 (125,900 ) (72.8 ) Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) Cost of product revenue(1) $ 2,210,559 49.2 % $ 2,213,015 47.5 % $ (2,456 ) (0.1 ) Product gross margin 48.3 % 50.7 % (2.4 )% Total gross margin 50.8 % 52.5 % (1.7 )% Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Product revenue $ 1,283,434 95.6 % $ 1,194,745 95.3 % $ 88,689 7.4 % Income from Qualcomm Agreement 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Licensing revenue 7,638 0.6 7,778 0.6 (140 ) (1.8 ) Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 Cost of product revenue(1) $ 630,259 46.9 % $ 615,349 49.1 % $ 14,910 2.4 Product gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 2.4 % Total gross margin 53.1 % 50.9 % 2.2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation expense resulting from stock options, stock purchase rights and restricted stock units we issued or assumed in acquisitions. For a further discussion of stock based compensation expense, see the section entitled Stock Based Compensation Expense below. The following table presents net revenue from each of our reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 1,525,193 34.0 % $ 1,722,671 37.0 % $ (197,478 ) (11.5 )% Mobile Wireless 1,719,998 38.3 1,528,178 32.8 191,820 12.6 Infrastructure Networking 1,055,553 23.5 1,258,044 27.0 (202,491 ) (16.1 ) All other(1) 189,579 4.2 149,232 3.2 40,347 27.0 Total net revenue $ 4,490,323 100.0 % $ 4,658,125 100.0 % $ (167,802 ) (3.6 ) 47 Table of Contents (1) Includes (i) income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 and (ii) royalties received pursuant to a patent license agreement that was entered into with Verizon Wireless in July 2007 which was completed in March 2009, each previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for broadband modems, digital set top boxes and digital TV products, offset in part by an increase in demand for our high definition DVD products. The increase in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from the ramp in the second half of 2009 of our cellular products and wireless combo solutions, offset in part by a decrease in demand for VoIP solutions. The decrease in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted primarily from a broad based decline in demand for our controller and Ethernet switch products. In 2009 we recognized $170.6 million of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and $19.0 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless. In 2008 we recognized $149.2 million of licensing revenue from our agreement with Verizon Wireless which was completed in March 2009. We recorded rebates to certain customers of $311.7 million, or 6.9% of net revenue and $236.4 million, or 5.1% of net revenue, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in rebates in 2009 was attributable to a change to the mix in sales to customers that participate in our rebate programs, primarily an increase in the Mobile Wireless area. We reversed accrued rebates of $10.5 million and $39.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents net revenue from each of the reportable segments and its respective contribution to net revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, September 30, 2009 2009 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Broadband Communications $ 449,233 33.5 % $ 394,863 31.5 % $ 54,370 13.8 % Mobile Wireless 502,037 37.4 520,613 41.5 (18,576 ) (3.6 ) Infrastructure Networking 339,802 25.3 287,047 22.9 52,755 18.4 All other(1) 51,674 3.8 51,674 4.1 Total net revenue $ 1,342,746 100.0 % $ 1,254,197 100.0 % $ 88,549 7.1 (1) Includes income relating to the Qualcomm Agreement that was entered into with Qualcomm in April 2009 that was previously reported in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. See discussion above in the Overview section and Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in net revenue from our Broadband Communications reportable segment resulted primarily from an increase in demand for digital set top boxes. The decrease in net revenue from our Mobile Wireless reportable segment resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for our Bluetooth products, due to seasonality, as certain of our customers prepared for the upcoming holiday season in three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in net revenue from our Infrastructure Networking reportable segment resulted principally from improving customer order patterns particularly for our Ethernet switch products. Cost of Product Revenue, Product Gross Margin and Total Gross Margin. Product gross margin decreased from 50.7% in 2008 to 48.3% in 2009 primarily as a result of changes in product mix from our more profitable Infrastructure Networking products to our less profitable Mobile Wireless products. Other factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin were: (i) a net decrease in the reversal of rebates of $29.1 million related to unclaimed rebates, (ii) fixed costs being spread over a lower revenue base, offset in part by (iii) a net decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $18.8 million. During 2008 we recorded a $33.7 million provision as a result of the significant reduction in demand in the 48 Table of Contents second half of 2008, whereas the $14.9 million provision recorded during 2009 was primarily related to inventory of our DTV business. Product gross margin increased from 48.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2009 to 50.9% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. The primary factors that contributed to the increase in product gross margin were: (i) product mix, (ii) a reduction in net excess and obsolete inventory provisions of $9.5 million, offset in part by (iii) an increase in the warranty provision of $2.4 million. Research and Development Expense The following table presents details of research and development expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 770,112 17.2 % $ 719,922 15.5 % $ 50,190 7.0 % Stock based compensation 351,884 7.8 358,018 7.7 (6,134 ) (1.7 ) Development and design costs 211,494 4.7 211,928 4.5 (434 ) (0.2 ) Other 201,428 4.5 207,800 4.4 (6,372 ) (3.1 ) Research and development $ 1,534,918 34.2 % $ 1,497,668 32.1 % $ 37,250 2.5 The increase in salaries and benefits was the result of an increase in our incentive plan costs due primarily to the stronger than anticipated performance in relative revenue growth as compared to an identified segment of the semiconductor industry and better than anticipated cash flow from operations generated in 2009. This was offset in part by the impact of our restructuring plan in January and October 2009 and our not having an annual salary merit increase in 2009. Development and design costs were relatively flat; however mask and prototyping costs increased due to the continued transition of certain products to 65 nanometer process technology, offset by reduced subcontracting costs. Development and design costs vary from period to period depending on the timing of development and tape out of various products. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense The following table presents details of selling, general and administrative expense for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Decrease Change (In thousands, except percentages) Salaries and benefits $ 194,336 4.3 % $ 198,411 4.3 % $ (4,075 ) (2.1 )% Stock based compensation 119,918 2.7 126,359 2.7 (6,441 ) (5.1 ) Legal and accounting fees 110,205 2.5 141,369 3.0 (31,164 ) (22.0 ) Other 54,903 1.2 76,978 1.7 (22,075 ) (28.7 ) Selling, general and administrative $ 479,362 10.7 % $ 543,117 11.7 % $ (63,755 ) (11.7 ) The decrease in legal and accounting fees related to the increase in net recoveries of legal expenses of $74.6 million under our directors and officers insurance policies, offset in part by an increase in legal fees associated with litigation related to our stock options matter. See below for further discussion of our directors and officers insurance policies. The decrease in the Other line item included in the above table is primarily attributable to a decrease in facility and travel and entertainment expenses. 49 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Expense The following table presents details of total stock based compensation expense that is included in each functional line item in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 24,545 $ 24,997 Research and development 351,884 358,018 Selling, general and administrative 119,918 126,359 $ 496,347 $ 509,374 % of total net revenue 11.1 % 10.9 % Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents details of the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in the cost of product revenue and other operating expense categories: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 16,196 $ 15,857 Other operating expenses 14,548 3,392 $ 30,744 $ 19,249 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets We performed annual impairment assessments of the carrying value of goodwill and other long lived assets in October 2009 and 2008. We compared the carrying value of each of our reporting units that existed at those times to its estimated fair value. For a description of the 2008 impairments including the valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Settlement Costs, Net In 2009 we incurred settlement costs of $183.8 million, partially offset by settlement gains of $65.3 million, resulting in $118.5 million of net settlement costs. In December 2009 we agreed in principle to the settlement of the Stock Option Class Actions in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. We recorded the settlement amount as a one time charge in our statement of income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded settlement gains of $65.3 million related to the Qualcomm Agreement in 2009. For a further discussion of this agreement, see Qualcomm Agreement in the Overview section above. In addition, we recorded settlement costs of $12.1 million related to a payment to the Israeli government associated with a post acquisition technology transfer fee related to our acquisition of Dune Networks, Inc. We also recorded $11.2 million in settlement costs in 2009 for estimated settlements associated with certain employment tax items, other employment matters and a patent infringement claim. In April 2008 we entered into a settlement with the SEC relating to the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Broadcoms historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the SECs allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008. The 50 Table of Contents settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008. In addition, we settled a patent infringement claim for $3.8 million in 2008. Restructuring Costs (Reversals) In light of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, in 2009 we implemented restructuring plans that included a reduction in our worldwide headcount of 200 people and an additional 120 people related to our DTV business. These reductions in headcount were completed in 2009. We recorded $7.5 million in net restructuring costs in 2009, primarily for severance and other charges associated with our reduction in workforce across multiple locations and functions and, to a lesser extent, the closure of one of our facilities. Included in the 2009 net restructuring expense were charges of $3.7 million related to stock based compensation expense incurred in connection with the modification of certain share based awards. In addition, we reversed restructuring costs of $4.2 million, as part of a contractual obligation due from AMD to reimburse us for certain restructuring actions taken during a stipulated post acquisition period. At December 31, 2009 our restructuring liability was $1.3 million. In Process Research and Development For a description of our 2009 and 2008 IPRD activities including our valuation techniques and significant assumptions, see the discussion included under In Process Research and Development for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. Charitable Contribution In 2009 we established the Broadcom Foundation, or the Foundation, to support mathematics and science programs, as well as a broad range of community services. We received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service of exemption from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We recorded an operating expense of $50.0 million related to our unrestricted grant to the Foundation. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents interest and other income (expense), net, for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net Increase % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 13,901 0.3 % $ 52,201 1.1 % $ (38,300 ) (73.4 )% Other income (expense), net 2,218 0.1 (2,016 ) 4,234 (210.0 ) The decrease in interest income, net, was the result of the overall decrease in market interest rates. Our cash and marketable securities balances increased from $1.898 billion at December 31, 2008 to $2.368 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, including the $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement. The average interest rates earned in 2009 and 2008 were 0.63% and 2.42%, respectively. The 2009 decrease in the average interest rate is a reflection of the current interest rate environment (Federal Funds Rate nearly 0%) and reinvestment rates being significantly lower than in 2008. 51 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents the income tax provision for 2009 and 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % of Net % of Net % Amount Revenue Amount Revenue (Decrease) Change (In thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ 6,930 0.1 % $ 7,521 0.2 % $ (591 ) (7.9 )% The federal statutory rate was 35% for 2009 and 2008. Our effective tax rates were 9.6% and 3.4% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The differences between our effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relate to foreign earnings taxed at substantially lower rates than the federal statutory rate for 2009 and 2008 due principally to our tax holiday in Singapore, and for 2009 domestic tax losses recorded without tax benefits. In 2008 U.S. operating losses were more than offset by a $1.5 billion dividend resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings in December 2008. As a result of this $1.5 billion repatriation of foreign earnings, we incurred $0.8 million of state tax expense in 2008. However, due to the utilization of $491.3 million of previously reserved domestic deferred tax assets in 2008 (including net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards), no federal income tax expense was recognized relating to the repatriation. We recognized federal tax benefits of approximately $3.0 million in both 2009 and 2008, which resulted from the utilization of a portion of our federal credits for increasing research activities (research and development tax credits) pursuant to a provision contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, which was enacted in February, 2009, and a provision contained in the Housing Assistance Act of 2008, which was enacted in July, 2008. In addition, we realized tax benefits resulting from the reversal of certain prior period tax accruals of $7.6 million and $6.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These reversals resulted primarily from the expiration of the statutes of limitation for the assessment of taxes related to certain foreign subsidiaries. In 2009, we recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million associated with the exposure resulting from a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case involving Xilinx, Inc. as discussed below. On May 27, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding treatment of certain compensation expenses under a Companys research and development cost sharing arrangements with affiliates. The Court of Appeals held that related parties to such an arrangement must share stock based compensation expenses, notwithstanding the fact that unrelated parties in such an arrangement would not share such costs. The case is subject to further appeal. The potential impact to Broadcom, should the IRS prevail, of including such stock based compensation expenses in our research and development cost sharing arrangements would be additional income for federal and state purposes from January 1, 2001 forward, and may result in additional related federal and state income and franchise taxes. We adjusted our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, our federal and state capitalized research and development costs and our deferred tax positions, and recorded a tax provision of approximately $3 million for additional federal and state income and franchise taxes to reflect this decision. We reduced our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $600.0 million and $380.0 million, respectively, and we reduced our deferred tax assets for both federal and state capitalized research and development costs by approximately $10.0 million each. Additionally, in 2009 we reduced our deferred tax asset relating to stock based compensation expenses by approximately $60.0 million, and increased our deferred tax asset for certain tax credits by approximately $10.0 million, with each of these amounts offset by a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets resulting in no net change to deferred tax assets. As a result of the expensing of share based payments since January 1, 2006, our deferred tax assets exclude certain excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation, that are components of our research and development credits, capitalized research and development, and net operating loss carryovers. If and when these tax benefits are realized, a credit is recorded to shareholders equity. The federal and state net operating losses and the capitalized research and development costs we reduced as a result of the decision in the Xilinx case represent such excess tax benefits from employee stock based compensation and therefore do not result in an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. 52 Table of Contents On January 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit withdrew its May 27, 2009 ruling in the Xilinx case and stated that it would reconsider the matter at a future date to be determined. In accounting for income tax uncertainties, only information that is available at our reporting date of December 31, 2009 could be considered in measuring our tax position. For details regarding the effects of subsequent 2010 decisions of the Ninth Circuit in Xilinx, see the discussion included under Provision for Income Taxes for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 above. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial performance. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. As a result of our recent cumulative losses in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and the full utilization of our loss carryback opportunities, we have concluded that a full valuation allowance should be recorded in such jurisdictions. In certain other foreign jurisdictions where we do not have cumulative losses, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $11.2 million at December 31, 2009 and net deferred tax assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009 our judgment changed with respect to prior period uncertain tax positions, which resulted in additional unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of approximately $380.0 million, of which approximately $280.0 million would be credited to shareholders equity if ultimately sustained and utilized to reduce our income tax liabilities because it relates to excess deductions from employee stock options. The remaining portion of these tax benefits, approximately $100.0 million, was previously offset by a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If these tax positions are not sustained, there will be no net effect on our tax provision because of the related valuation allowance. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. The 2004 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by federal and most state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, the 2001 through 2009 tax years generally remain subject to examination by tax authorities. Our income tax returns for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and certain state jurisdictions. In addition, our employment tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. We currently do not expect that the results of these examinations will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate under tax holidays in Singapore, which are effective through March 2014. The tax holidays are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of the Singapore tax holidays decreased Singapore taxes by $224.8 million and $284.0 million for 2009 and 2008 respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was $0.44 and $0.54 for 2009 and 2008 respectively. At December 31, 2009 we had unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $400.8 million which included $117.1 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We also accrued potential penalties and interest of $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to these unrecognized tax benefits during 2009, and in total, as of December 31, 2009, we had a recorded liability for potential penalties and interest of $11.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the consolidated statements of income as income tax expense. We had a $376.9 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits relating to reductions to our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, and tax credit carryforwards for previous years. These reductions primarily resulted from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit May 27, 2009 ruling in the case between Xilinx, Inc. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Other than the possible reversal of the increases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to the decision in the Xilinx case, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly over the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Financial Data The following table presents our quarterly financial data. In our opinion, this information has been prepared on a basis consistent with that of our audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals and adjustments, have been included to present fairly the quarterly financial data. Our quarterly results of operations for these periods are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Diluted Net Income Net (Loss) Total Net Income Per Revenue (Loss) Share (In thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 1,945,555 $ 266,189 (1) $ 0.47 Third Quarter 1,806,017 327,129 0.60 Second Quarter 1,604,448 278,318 0.52 First Quarter 1,462,299 210,164 0.40 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 1,342,746 $ 59,204 (2) $ 0.11 Third Quarter 1,254,197 84,596 0.16 Second Quarter 1,039,944 13,401 (3) 0.03 First Quarter 853,436 (91,940 ) (0.19 ) (1) Includes settlement costs of $48.8 million and an impairment of long lived assets charge of $17.3 million. (2) Includes settlement costs of $175.7 million, net of a $63.2 million recovery of legal expenses . (3) Includes impairment of long lived assets of $11.3 million, net settlement gains of $58.4 million and a charitable contribution of $50.0 million. Subsequent Events In January 2011, Broadcom and CSR plc agreed to settle all litigation and legal proceedings between the parties and their affiliates, including our subsidiary Global Locate, Inc. and CSRs subsidiary SiRF Technology, Inc. The parties have sought dismissal of their various pending actions in U.S. District Court, and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), based in Washington, D.C., and have agreed not to pursue further infringement actions against each other, or against third parties based on use of each others products, for a period of five years. We will receive an initial payment of $5.0 million and payments of a maximum $12.5 million per year for five years. In January 2011, Broadcom and Wi Lan signed a binding term sheet resolving all litigation between the two companies. The two companies are drafting a definitive settlement, release and patent license agreement, which will be finalized in February 2011. A portion of the consideration has been recognized as a settlement cost and the remainder has been allocated to intellectual property rights which will be amortized over their estimated useful life, the impact of which is not expected to be material to our operating results. In January 2011, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the existing dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share on an annual basis) and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share payable to holders of our common stock. In February 2011, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement with an Investment Bank to repurchase $300 million dollars of our common stock. The majority of the shares repurchased under the ASR program will be immediately retired and, depending on the average daily volume weighted average price of our common stock during the specified term, we may receive additional shares back at the conclusion of the program. 54 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, reached a consensus on Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13 and ASU 2009 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements, or ASU 2009 14. ASU 2009 13 modifies the requirements that must be met for an entity to recognize revenue from the sale of a delivered item that is part of a multiple element arrangement when other items have not yet been delivered. ASU 2009 13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third party evidence, or TPE, is available for that deliverable. In the absence of VSOE or TPE of the standalone selling price for one or more delivered or undelivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, entities are required to estimate the selling prices of those elements. Overall arrangement consideration is allocated to each element (both delivered and undelivered items) based on their relative selling prices, regardless of whether those selling prices are evidenced by VSOE or TPE or are based on the entitys estimated selling price. The residual method of allocating arrangement consideration has been eliminated. ASU 2009 14 modifies the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude from its scope tangible products that contain both software and non software components that function together to deliver a products essential functionality. We adopted the provisions of these ASUs effective January 1, 2010 and they did not have a material impact on our results of operations. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, or QSPE, revises conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale (e.g., loan participations), clarifies the derecognition criteria, eliminates special guidance for guaranteed mortgage securitizations, and changes the initial measurement of a transferors interest in transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that revises analysis for identifying the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, or VIE, by replacing the previous quantitative based analysis with a framework that is based more on qualitative judgments. The new guidance requires the primary beneficiary of a VIE to be identified as the party that both (i) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and (ii) has an obligation to absorb losses or a right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010 the FASB issued guidance that expands the interim and annual disclosure requirements of fair value measurements, including the information about movement of assets between Level 1 and 2 of the three tier fair value hierarchy established under its fair value measurement guidance. This guidance also requires separate disclosure for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs using Level 3 methodologies. Except for the detailed disclosure in the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, we adopted the relevant provisions of this guidance effective January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010 the FASB reached a consensus on the Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition which provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective July 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital and Cash and Marketable Securities. The following table presents working capital, and cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) Working capital $ 2,912,311 $ 1,765,982 $ 1,146,329 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 225,330 Short term marketable securities(1) 1,035,252 532,281 502,971 Long term marketable securities 1,400,706 438,616 962,090 $ 4,058,381 $ 2,367,990 $ 1,690,391 (1) Included in working capital. See the summary of cash, cash equivalents, short and long term marketable securities by major security type and discussion of market risk that follows in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Cash Provided and Used in 2010 and 2009 Cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.622 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1.397 billion at December 31, 2009 as a result of cash provided by operating activities, the proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt and our Class A common stock, partially offset by net purchases of marketable securities, the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beceem and Gigle, repurchases of our Class A common stock and our quarterly dividend payments. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,370,826 $ 986,893 $ 919,615 Cash used in investing activities (2,178,033 ) (501,357 ) (745,382 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,032,537 (279,088 ) (1,170,160 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225,330 $ 206,448 $ (995,927 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 $ 2,186,572 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,622,423 $ 1,397,093 $ 1,190,645 Operating Activities In 2010 our operating activities provided $1.371 billion in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1.082 billion and net non cash operating expenses of $636.6 million offset in part by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $347.6 million, which includes increases in accounts receivable of $286.7 million, increases in inventory of $208.1 million and our $160.5 million payment of previously accrued securities litigation settlement costs. In 2009 our operating activities provided $986.9 million in cash. This was primarily the result of $617.4 million in net non cash operating expenses, $304.2 million in net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities (including $286.4 million received from the Qualcomm Agreement) and net income of $65.3 million. Changes in assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 included the following: Days sales outstanding increased from 35 days to 38 days driven primarily by a variation in revenue linearity, as a larger percentage of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the last month of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 56 Table of Contents Inventory days on hand increased from 52 days to 57 days due to our decision to increase inventory on hand to meet the anticipated growth in the demand for our products primarily in our Mobile Wireless reportable segment. Accounts payable days outstanding decreased from 63 to 58 days resulting primarily from the timing of inventory purchases and vendor payments. We typically bill customers on an open account basis subject to our standard net thirty day payment terms. If our revenue increases, it is likely that our accounts receivable balance will also increase. Our accounts receivable could also increase if customers delay their payments or if we grant extended payment terms to customers, both of which are more likely to occur during challenging economic times when our customers may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit on a timely basis. In the future, our inventory levels will continue to be determined by the level of purchase orders we receive and the stage at which our products are in their respective product life cycles, our ability, and the ability of our customers, to manage inventory under hubbing arrangements, and competitive situations in the marketplace. Such considerations are balanced against the risk of obsolescence or potentially excess inventory levels. Investing Activities Investing activities used $2.178 billion in cash in 2010, which was primarily the result of $1.466 billion in net purchases of marketable securities, $599.5 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisitions of Teknovus, Innovision, Percello, Beeceem and Gigle and $108.9 million of capital equipment purchases, mostly to support our research and development efforts. Investing activities used $501.4 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of net purchases of marketable securities of $267.5 million, $165.3 million in net cash paid primarily for the acquisition of Dune Networks and $67.0 million of capital equipment purchases mostly to support our research and development efforts. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $1.033 billion in cash in 2010. This was primarily the result of $936.3 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan and $691.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of our long term debt offset in part by $280.3 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock, dividends paid of $163.4 million, repayment of debt assumed in our Teknovus acquisition of $14.6 million and $136.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units. Our financing activities used $279.1 million in cash in 2009, which was primarily the result of $421.9 million in repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program implemented in July 2008 and $84.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for shares issued pursuant to restricted stock units, offset in part by $227.2 million in proceeds received from issuances of common stock upon exercise of stock options and pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and number of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and the amount of cash proceeds we receive through those exercises and purchases are not within our control, and in the future we may not generate as much cash from the exercise of stock options as we have in the past. Unlike the exercise of stock options, the issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units does not result in any cash proceeds to Broadcom and requires the use of cash, as we currently allow employees to elect to have a portion of the shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units withheld to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes, which we then pay in cash to the appropriate tax authorities on each participating employees behalf. 57 Table of Contents Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase (In thousands) 1.500% fixed rate notes, due 2013 $ 300,000 $ $ 300,000 2.375% fixed rate notes, due 2015 400,000 400,000 Total $ 700,000 $ $ 700,000 In November 2010 we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $700 million. These Notes consist of $300 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.500% per annum, and $400 million aggregate principal amount of notes which mature in November 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable in cash semi annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2011. The 2013 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.694% and the 2015 Notes were issued with an original issue discount at 99.444% and are recorded as long term debt, net of original issue discount. The discount and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of the Notes are amortized to interest expense over their respective terms. In connection with the Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to use our reasonable commercial efforts to file with the SEC an exchange offer registration statement to issue registered notes with substantially identical terms as the Notes in exchange for any outstanding Notes, or, under certain circumstances, a shelf registration statement to register the Notes. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the exchange offer or cause the shelf registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC, in each case on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the Notes offering. If we are unable to complete our registration statement, we will be subject to interest penalties. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a specified make whole premium as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Default can be triggered by any missed interest or principal payment, breach of covenant, or in certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. The Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to grant liens on assets; enter into sale and lease back transactions; or merge, consolidate or sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants, or any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Credit Facility We entered into a credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swingline loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500 million. The credit facility matures on November 19, 2014, at which time all outstanding revolving facility loans and accrued and unpaid interest must be repaid. We did not draw on our credit facility in 2010. Any advances under a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR, or BBA LIBOR, plus the Applicable Rate. Any advances under a US Dollar Base Rate Committed Loan will accrue interest at rates that are equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% (b) Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (c) BBA LIBOR plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the actual daily unused amount of commitments. We may also, upon the agreement of the existing lenders, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties as well as affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Financial covenants require us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.00 to 1.00. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings We had no other significant notes or borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Obligations and Commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010: Payment Obligations by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 130,788 $ 91,639 $ 76,084 $ 66,012 $ 63,623 $ 169,657 $ 597,803 Inventory and related purchase obligations 567,169 567,169 Other obligations 121,751 18,357 12,701 12,699 12,700 12,609 190,817 Long term debt 300,000 400,000 700,000 Total $ 819,708 $ 109,996 $ 388,785 $ 78,711 $ 476,323 $ 182,266 $ 2,055,789 We lease our facilities and certain engineering design tools and information systems equipment under operating lease agreements. Our leased facilities comprise an aggregate of 3.3 million square feet. Our principal facilities in Irvine have lease terms that expire at various dates through 2017 with an aggregate rent of $149.6 million (included in the table above). Inventory and related purchase obligations represent purchase commitments for silicon wafers and assembly and test services. We depend upon third party subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. Due to lengthy subcontractor lead times, we must order these materials and services from subcontractors well in advance. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services within the ensuing six months. Our subcontractor relationships typically allow for the cancellation of outstanding purchase orders, but require payment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. To date we have not incurred significant cancellation charges. Other obligations represent purchase commitments for lab test equipment, computer hardware, and information systems infrastructure, mask and prototyping costs, and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our vendors within a relatively short time horizon. We have additional purchase orders (not included in the table above) that represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventories or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements. Unrecognized tax benefits were $187.5 million of which $22.5 million would result in potential cash payment of taxes and $165.0 million would result in a reduction in net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We are not including any amount related to uncertain tax positions in the table presented above because of the difficulty in making reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of settlements with the respective taxing authorities. In addition to the unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential tax penalties and interest of $13.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Prospective Capital Needs We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash generated from operations and from the issuance of common stock through our employee stock option and purchase plans, will be 59 Table of Contents sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, repurchases of our Class A common stock and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money from financial institutions. We could also reduce certain expenditures, such as repurchases of our Class A common stock. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or increase our existing credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: general economic and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the wired and wireless communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies; the unavailability of credit and financing, which may lead certain of our customers to reduce their levels of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us; litigation expenses, settlements and judgments; the overall levels of sales of our semiconductor products, licensing revenue, income from the Qualcomm Agreement and product gross margins; our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; the market acceptance of our products; repurchases of our Class A common stock; payment of cash dividends; required levels of research and development and other operating costs; volume price discounts and customer rebates; intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; licensing royalties payable by us; changes in our compensation policies; the issuance of restricted stock units and the related cash payments we make for withholding taxes due from employees; capital improvements for new and existing facilities; technological advances; our competitors responses to our products and our anticipation of and responses to their products; our relationships with suppliers and customers; the availability and cost of sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials; and the level of exercises of stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned future long term growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements, other than our operating leases. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Company manages its total portfolio to encompass a diversified pool of investment grade securities to preserve principal and maintain liquidity. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to an increase in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in the income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity, net of tax. In a declining interest rate environment, as short term investments mature, reinvestment occurs at less favorable market rates. Given the short term nature of certain investments, the current interest rate environment may continue to negatively impact our investment income. To assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $22.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.8 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Actual future gains and losses associated with our investments may differ from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2010 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and level of interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in short term interest rates would not have a material impact on our revolving credit facility, which bears a floating interest rate. This sensitivity analysis assumes all other variables will remain constant in future periods. Our Senior Notes bear fixed interest rates, and therefore, would not be subject to interest rate risk. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of $2.591 billion held domestically, with the remaining balance of $1.467 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. There may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the United States. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales to customers and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our business in the future. 
 
