FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20020708171345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
            
July 1, 2002
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
            
612-330-5500
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
On July 1, 2002, Xcel Energy received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) alleging violations of the New Source Review (NSR) requirements of the Clean Air Act at the Comanche and Pawnee Stations in Colorado. The NOV specifically alleges that various maintenance, repair and replacement projects undertaken at the plants in the mid- to late-1990s should have required a permit under the NSR process. Xcel Energy believes it acted in full compliance with the Clean Air Act and NSR process. It believes that the projects identified in the NOV fit within the routine maintenance, repair and replacement exemption contained within the NSR regulations or are otherwise not subject to the NSR requirements. Xcel Energy also believes that the projects would be expressly authorized under the EPA's NSR policy announced by the EPA administrator on June 22, 2002.
If the EPA is successful in any subsequent litigation regarding the issues set forth in the NOV, it could require Xcel Energy to install additional emission control equipment at the facilities and pay civil penalties. Civil penalties are limited to not more than $25,000 to $27,500 per day for each violation. Xcel Energy disagrees with the assertions contained in the NOV and intends to vigorously defend its position. The ultimate financial impact to Xcel Energy is not determinable at this time.
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "guidance," "projected," "objective," "outlook," "possible," "potential" and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including their impact on capital expenditures; business conditions in the energy industry; competitive factors; unusual weather; changes in federal or state legislation; regulation; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 2001.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 8, 2002


