FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20021127155857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
On November 21, 2002, Xcel Energy Inc. issued a press release announcing that it closed on the sale of $230 million of 7.5% convertible senior notes, which includes the issuance of $30 million associated with 15 percent over-allotment option granted to the initial purchasers. The 7.5% senior notes were issued in a private placement transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The 7.5% senior notes have an annual interest rate of 7.5 percent, mature in 2007 and are convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion price of $12.33. The conversion price represents a 25-percent premium over the $9.86 closing price of the Company's stock on November 19, 2002. For more information see the Indenture, which sets forth the terms of the 7.5% senior notes and is included in this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.01, the Registration Rights Agreement, which, among other things, describes the ability of the holders of the 7.5% senior notes to resell their notes pursuant to a registration statement and is included as Exhibit 99.02 to this Form 8-K, and the press release included in this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.03.
As stated in the press release, a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of the 7.5% senior notes was to be used to redeem $100 million of the Company's 8% convertible senior notes issued on November 8, 2002. This redemption occurred on November 25, 2002. Reference is made to the agreement attached as Exhibit 99.04, regarding the terms of redemption of the 8% convertible senior notes.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.01 -------------------------- XCEL ENERGY INC. 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 -------------------------- INDENTURE Dated as of November 21, 2002 -------------------------- WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION TRUSTEE --------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
EXHIBITS Exhibit A Form of Global Note Exhibit B-1 Transfer Certificate Exhibit B-2 Form of Letter to Be Delivered by Institutional Accredited Investors iii
CROSS REFERENCE TABLE* INDENTURE TIA SECTION SECTION 310(a)(1)..................................................................7.09 (a)(2).....................................................................7.09 (a)(3).....................................................................N.A. (a)(4).....................................................................N.A. (a)(5).....................................................................7.09 (b)......................................................7.08; 7.09; 7.10; 7.11 (c)........................................................................N.A. 311(a).....................................................................7.13 (b)........................................................................7.13 (c)........................................................................N.A. 312(a).....................................................................2.06 (b).......................................................................12.03 (c).......................................................................12.03 313(a)..................................................................7.14(a) (b)(1)..................................................................7.14(a) (b)(2)..................................................................7.14(a) (c).......................................................................12.02 (d).....................................................................7.14(b) 314(a)........................................................4.02; 4.03; 12.02 (b)........................................................................N.A. (c)(1)....................................................................12.04 (c)(2)....................................................................12.04 (c)(3).....................................................................N.A. (d)........................................................................N.A. (e).......................................................................12.05 (f)........................................................................N.A. 315(a).....................................................................7.01 (b).................................................................7.15; 12.02 (c)........................................................................7.01 (d)........................................................................7.01 (e)........................................................................6.11 316(a) (last sentence).....................................................2.09 (a)(1)(A)..................................................................6.05 (a)(1)(B)..................................................................6.04 (a)(2).....................................................................N.A. (b)........................................................................6.07 317(a)(1)..................................................................6.08 (a)(2).....................................................................6.09 (b)........................................................................2.05 318(a)....................................................................12.01 N.A. means Not Applicable - -------------------- * Note: This Cross Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of the Indenture. iv
INDENTURE dated as of November 21, 2002 between XCEL ENERGY INC., a Minnesota corporation (the "Issuer"), and WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the "Trustee"). RECITALS OF THE ISSUER The Issuer has duly authorized the creation of an issue of its 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 (herein called the "Notes") of substantially the tenor and amount hereinafter set forth, and to provide therefor the Issuer has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. All things necessary to make the Notes, when the Notes are executed by the Issuer and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the valid and legally binding obligations of the Issuer, and to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Issuer, in accordance with their and its terms, have been done. Further, all things necessary to duly authorize the issuance of the Common Stock of the Issuer issuable upon the conversion of the Notes, and to duly reserve for issuance the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, have been done. This Indenture is subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, that are required to be a part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION Section 1.01 Definitions. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular; and (2) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Affiliate" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Issuer, or any duly authorized committee of such board. "Board Resolution" means a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors, a copy of which, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Issuer, to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, shall have been delivered to the Trustee. "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which the banking institutions in The City of New York or the city in which the Corporate Trust Office is located are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close or be closed.
"Capital Stock" of any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation. "Citadel Securities Purchase Agreement" means that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2002, by and among the Issuer, Citadel Equity Fund Ltd., Citadel Credit Trading Ltd. and Jackson Investment Fund Ltd. "Closing Price" of any security on any date of determination means: (1) the closing sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price) of such security on the New York Stock Exchange on such date; (2) if such security is not listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange on any such date, the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which such security is so listed; (3) if such security is not so listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the closing sale price as reported by the NASDAQ National Market; (4) if such security is not so reported, the last quoted bid price for such security in the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization; or (5) if such bid price is not available, the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices of such security on such date from at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms retained for this purpose by the Issuer. "Closing Time" has the meaning specified in the Purchase Agreement. "Common Stock" means the Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, together with any rights related thereto, of the Issuer, authorized at the date of this instrument as originally executed. Subject to the provisions of Section 10.11, shares issuable on conversion of Notes shall include only shares of Common Stock or shares of any class or classes of common stock resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof; provided, however, that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares so issuable on conversion of Notes shall include shares of all such classes, and the shares of each such class then so issuable shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications. "common stock" means any stock of any class of capital stock which has no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer. "Conversion Agent" means any person authorized by the Issuer to convert Notes in accordance with Article 10 hereof. "Conversion Price" means, initially, $12.325, and at any point, the price obtained by dividing $1,000 by the Conversion Rate then in effect, rounded to the nearest cent. "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at Corporate Trust Services N9303-120, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Issuer, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Issuer). "Date of Delivery" has the meaning specified in the Purchase Agreement. 2
"Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "Depositary" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.07(d) as the Depositary with respect to such Notes, until a successor shall have been appointed and become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter, "Depositary" shall mean or include such successor. "GAAP" means United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time. "Holder" or "Noteholder" as applied to any Note, or other similar terms (but excluding the term "beneficial holder"), means any Person in whose name at the time a particular Note is registered on the Note Registrar's books. "Indenture" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof. "Initial Purchasers" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Lazard Freres & Co. LLC. "Interest Payment Date" means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on the Notes. "Issue Date" of any Note means the date on which the Note was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Note. "Issuer" means the party named as the "Issuer" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors. "Issuer Order" means a written order signed in the name of the Issuer by any two Officers of the Issuer. "Liquidated Damages" has the meaning specified for "Liquidated Damages Amount" in Section 2(e) of the Registration Rights Agreement. "Notes" has the meaning ascribed to it in the first paragraph under the caption "Recitals of the Issuer". "NRG" means NRG Energy, Inc. "Officer" means the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Issuer. "Officers' Certificate" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Issuer by any two Officers of the Issuer, and delivered to the Trustee. An Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be signed by an authorized financial or accounting Officer of the Issuer but need not contain the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Issuer. "Overallotment Option" means the overallotment option granted by the Issuer to the Initial Purchasers to purchase up to $30,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes to cover overallotments pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. 3
"person" or "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Portal Market" means The Portal Market operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any successor thereto. "principal" of a Note means the principal amount due on the Stated Maturity as set forth on the face of the Note. "Purchase Agreement" means the Purchase Agreement dated as of November 19, 2002, between the Issuer and the Initial Purchasers. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "Registration Rights Agreement" means that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated the date hereof, between the Issuer and the Initial Purchasers, as amended from time to time in accordance with its terms. "Regular Quarterly Dividend" means the cash dividend paid every three months to holders of the Common Stock the timing of which is in accordance with past practices. "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date, the close of business on May 6 or November 6 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. "Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject, and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Act" means the United States Securities Act of 1933 (or any successor statute), as amended from time to time. "Significant Subsidiary" means any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Issuer (other than NRG or any subsidiary of NRG) that meets any of the following conditions: (1) the Issuer's and its other Subsidiaries' investments in and advances to such Subsidiary exceed 15% of the total assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries (other than NRG and its subsidiaries) consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; (2) the Issuer's and its other Subsidiaries' proportionate share of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of such Subsidiary exceed 15% of the total assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries (other than NRG and its subsidiaries) consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or (3) the Issuer's and its other Subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of such Subsidiary exceed 15% of such income of the Issuer and its 4
Subsidiaries (other than NRG and its subsidiaries) consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year. "Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Note or any installment of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Note as the fixed date on which the principal of such Note or such installment of interest is due and payable. "Subsidiary" means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Capital Stock with voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect directors is, at the date of determination, directly or indirectly owned by the Issuer, by one or more Subsidiaries of the Issuer or by the Issuer and one or more Subsidiaries of the Issuer, (ii) a partnership in which the Issuer or a Subsidiary of the Issuer holds a majority interest in the equity capital or profits of such partnership, or (iii) any other person (other than a corporation) in which the Issuer, a Subsidiary of the Issuer or the Issuer and one or more Subsidiaries of the Issuer, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (x) at least a majority ownership interest or (y) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors or other governing body of such person. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture; provided, however, that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended. "Trading Day" means a day during which trading in Notes generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange, on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. "Trustee" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors. "United States" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction (its "possessions" including Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands). "U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by or acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof at any time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt. "Voting Stock" means with respect to any Person, Capital Stock of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the election of directors of such Person. 5
Section 1.02 Other Definitions. Section 1.03 Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act. Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings: "Commission" means the SEC. "indenture Notes" means the Notes. "indenture Note holder" means a Noteholder. "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture. "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee. "obligor" on the indenture Notes means the Issuer. All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions. 6
Section 1.04 Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (a) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time; (b) "or" is not exclusive; (c) "including" means including, without limitation; and Section 1.05 Acts of Holders. (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by their agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Issuer. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Issuer, if made in the manner provided in this Section. (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient. The ownership of Notes shall be proved by the Note Register or by a certificate of the Note Registrar. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Note shall bind every future Holder of the same Note and the holder of every Note issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Issuer in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Note. If the Issuer shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Issuer may, at its option, by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Issuer, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Issuer shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Notes have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Notes shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date. ARTICLE 2 THE NOTES Section 2.01 Designation Amount and Issue of Notes. The Notes shall be designated as "7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2007". Except pursuant to Sections 2.07, 2.08, 3.01, 3.04, 9.05 and 10.02 hereof, Notes not to exceed the aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000 (or $230,000,000, if the Overallotment Option is fully exercised by the Initial Purchasers) upon the execution of this Indenture, or from time to time thereafter, may 7
be executed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon an Issuer Order, without any further action by the Issuer hereunder. Section 2.02 Form of Notes. The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by such Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A, which is incorporated in and made a part of this Indenture. Any of the Notes may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such notations, legends and endorsements as the officers executing the same may approve (execution thereof to be conclusive evidence of such approval) and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Notes may be listed, or to conform to usage. Any Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be increased or reduced to reflect transfers or exchanges permitted hereby. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee, in such manner and upon instructions given by the holder of such Notes in accordance with this Indenture. Payment of principal of and interest on any Global Note shall be made to the Holder of such Note. The terms and provisions contained in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. Section 2.03 Execution and Authentication. The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Issuer by an Officer of the Issuer, which may be manual or facsimile. Notes bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at the time of the execution of the Notes the proper Officers of the Issuer shall bind the Issuer, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Notes or did not hold such offices at the date of authentication of such Notes. Notes shall be dated the date of their authentication. No Note shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Note a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent by manual signature of an authorized officer, and such certificate upon any Note shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Note has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. The Notes shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 in principal amount and any integral multiple thereof. Section 2.04 Note Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent. The Issuer shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("Note Registrar"), an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for conversion ("Conversion Agent"). The Note Registrar shall keep a register (the "Note Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, it shall provide for the registration and transfer of the Notes. The Issuer may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The Issuer shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Issuer fails to maintain a Note Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to 8
appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.06. The Issuer or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of it may act as Paying Agent, Note Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar. The Issuer initially appoints the Trustee as Note Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Notes. Section 2.05 Paying Agent to Hold Money and Notes in Trust. Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Note, the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or Common Stock sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Issuer shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Noteholders or the Trustee all money and Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Notes and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Issuer in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and Common Stock so held in trust. If the Issuer, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Issuer at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or Common Stock. Section 2.06 Noteholder Lists. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Noteholders. If the Trustee is not the Note Registrar, the Issuer shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on January 1 and July 1 a listing of Noteholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Noteholders. Section 2.07 Transfer and Exchange; Restrictions on Transfer; Depositary. (a) Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Note Registrar duly executed by the Noteholder or such Noteholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the company designated as Note Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.04, and satisfaction of the requirements of such transfer set forth in this Section, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by this Indenture. The Issuer shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Notes from the Noteholder requesting such transfer or exchange. At the option of the Holder, Notes may be exchanged for other Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Notes to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Note Registrar duly executed by the Noteholder or such Noteholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Notes which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. The Issuer shall not be required to make, and the Note Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of any Notes in respect of which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice (as defined in Section 3.01(c)) has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Notes to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased). 9
(b) So long as the Notes are eligible for book-entry settlement with the Depositary, or unless otherwise required by law, all Notes that, upon initial issuance are beneficially owned by QIBs or as a result of a sale or transfer after initial issuance are beneficially owned by QIBs, will be represented by one or more Notes in global form registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary (a "Global Note"), except as otherwise specified below. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in any such Global Note shall be effected through the Depositary in accordance with this Indenture and the procedures of the Depositary therefor. The Trustee shall make appropriate endorsements to reflect increases or decreases in the principal amounts of any such Global Note as set forth on the face of the Note ("Principal Amount") to reflect any such transfers. Except as provided below, beneficial owners of a Global Note shall not be entitled to have certificates registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificates in definitive form ("Certificated Notes") and will not be considered holders of such Global Note. (c) (i) So long as the Notes are eligible for book-entry settlement with the Depositary, or unless otherwise required by law, upon any transfer of a Certificated Note to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A that requests delivery of such Note in the form of an interest in the Global Note, and upon receipt of the Certificated Note or Notes being so transferred, together with a certification, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, from the transferor that the transfer is being made in compliance with Rule 144A (or other evidence satisfactory to the Trustee), the Trustee shall make an endorsement on the Global Note to reflect an increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by such Global Note, and the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Note or Notes in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures of the Depositary. (ii) Upon any sale or transfer of a Note to the Issuer or any Subsidiary thereof (other than pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or after the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act), the transferor shall, prior to such sale or transfer, furnish to the Issuer and/or Trustee such certifications, including a certification substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, legal opinions or other information as they may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of a beneficial interest in the Global Note to the Issuer or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on the Global Note to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by such Global Note, and the Issuer shall execute a Certificated Note or Notes in exchange therefor, and the Trustee, upon receipt of such Certificated Note or Notes and an Issuer Order, shall authenticate and deliver such, Certificated Note or Notes. (iii) Upon any sale or transfer of a Note to an Institutional Accredited Investor (other than pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or after the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act), such Institutional Accredited Investor shall, prior to such sale or transfer, furnish to the Issuer and/or the Trustee a signed letter containing representations and agreements relating to restrictions on transfer substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B-2 hereto and the transferor shall, prior to such sale or transfer, furnish to the Issuer and/or Trustee such certifications, including a certification substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, legal opinions or other information as they may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of a beneficial interest in the Global Note to an Institutional Accredited Investor, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on the Global Note to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by such Global Note, and the Issuer shall execute a Certificated Note or Notes in exchange therefor, and the Trustee, upon receipt of such Certificated Note or Notes and an Issuer Order, shall authenticate and deliver such, Certificated Note or Notes. (iv) Upon any sale or transfer of a Note outside the United States in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act (other than pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or after the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act), the transferor shall, prior 10
to such sale or transfer, furnish to the Issuer and/or the Trustee such certifications, including a certification substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, legal opinions or other information as they may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of a beneficial interest in the Global Note to such transferee, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on the Global Note to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by such Global Note, and the Issuer shall either (1) execute a Certificated Note or Notes in exchange therefor, and the Trustee, upon receipt of such Certificated Note or Notes and an Issuer Order, shall authenticate and deliver such, Certificated Note or Notes or (2) if a Global Note with respect to Notes transferred in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act has previously been executed and authenticated, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on such Global Note to reflect a corresponding increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes represented by such Global Note. (v) Upon any sale or transfer of a Note pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, the transferor shall, prior to such sale or transfer, furnish to the Issuer and/or the Trustee such certifications, including a certification substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, legal opinions or other information as they may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of a beneficial interest in the Global Note to such transferee, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on the Global Note to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by such Global Note, and, at the request of the transferee, either (1) the Issuer shall execute a Certificated Note or Notes in exchange therefor, and the Trustee, upon receipt of such Certificated Note or Notes and an Issuer Order, shall authenticate and deliver such, Certificated Note or Notes or (2) if a global note that does not bear the legend set forth in Section 2.07(d) has previously been executed and authenticated, the Trustee shall make an endorsement on such global note to reflect a corresponding increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes represented by such global note. Any global note may be endorsed with or have incorporated in the text thereof such legends or recitals or changes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture as may be required by the Trustee, the Depositary or by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. in order for the Notes to be tradeable on The Portal Market or as may be required for the Notes to be tradeable on any other market developed for trading of securities pursuant to Rule 144A or required to comply with any applicable law or any regulation thereunder or with the rules and regulations of any securities exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Notes may be listed or traded or to conform with any usage with respect thereto, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Notes are subject. (d) Every Note that bears or is required under this Section 2.07(d) to bear the legend set forth in this Section 2.07(d) (together with any Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes and required to bear the legend set forth in Section 2.07(e), collectively, the "Restricted Securities") shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in this Section 2.07(d) (including those set forth in the legend set forth below) unless such restrictions on transfer shall be waived by written consent of the Issuer, and the holder of each such Restricted Security, by such Noteholder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in Section 2.07(d) and 2.07(e), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, loan, transfer or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Security. Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), any certificate evidencing such Note (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof, other than Common Stock, if any, issued upon conversion thereof, which shall bear the legend set forth in Section 2.07(e), if applicable) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Note has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer), or unless otherwise agreed by the Issuer in writing, with written notice thereof to the Trustee: 11
THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES THEREOF UNDER RULE 144(K) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSIVE PROVISION) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD"), ONLY (A) TO XCEL ENERGY INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) OUTSIDE THE UNTIED STATES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, (D) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THE SECURITY FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR," FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING UNDER RULE 144, IF AVAILABLE. IF ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY OR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY IS PROPOSED TO BE MADE PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) OF THIS PARAGRAPH PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD (OR THE DATE OF REGISTRATION THEREOF), THE TRANSFEROR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO DELIVER A LETTER FROM THE TRANSFEREE TO THE TRUSTEE WHICH SHALL PROVIDE, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT THE TRANSFEREE IS AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES TO ANY REQUIREMENT OF LAW THAT THE DISPOSITION OF ITS PROPERTY OR THE PROPERTY OF SUCH INVESTOR ACCOUNT OR ACCOUNTS BE AT ALL TIMES WITHIN ITS OR THEIR CONTROL. EACH PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD, THE ISSUER AND THE TRUSTEE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD. Any Note (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of such Note for exchange to the Note Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.07, be exchanged for a new Note or Notes, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.07(d). Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture (other than the provisions set forth in Section 2.07(c), with respect to transfers of beneficial interests in a Global Note, and in this Section 2.07(d)), a Global Note may not be transferred as a whole or in part except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a 12
nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "Agent Members") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Note, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Issuer, the Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Note. The Depositary shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act. The Issuer initially appoints The Depository Trust Company to act as Depositary with respect to the Notes in global form. Initially, the Global Note shall be issued to the Depositary, registered in the name of Cede & Co., as the nominee of the Depositary, and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for Cede & Co. If at any time the Depositary for a Global Note notifies the Issuer that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Note, the Issuer may appoint a successor Depositary with respect to such Note. If a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Issuer within ninety (90) days after the Issuer receives such notice, the Issuer will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate for the authentication and delivery of Notes, will authenticate and deliver, Certificated Notes, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Note, in exchange for such Global Note. If a Certificated Note is issued in exchange for any portion of a Global Note after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date in respect of such Certificated Note, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such Global Note is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture. Certificated Notes issued in exchange for all or a part of a Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.07 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. Upon execution and authentication, the Trustee shall deliver such Certificated Notes to the Persons in whose names such Certificated Notes are so registered. At such time as all interests in a Global Note have been converted, canceled or exchanged for Certificated Notes, or transferred to a transferee who receives Certificated Notes thereof, such Global Note shall, upon receipt thereof, be canceled by the Trustee in accordance with standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Trustee. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any interest in a Global Note is exchanged for Certificated Notes, converted, canceled or exchanged or transferred to a transferee who receives Certificated Notes therefor or any Certificated Note is exchanged or transferred for part of a Global Note, the principal amount of such Global Note shall, in accordance with the standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Trustee, be appropriately reduced or increased, as the case may be, and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note, by the Trustee to reflect such reduction or increase. (e) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Common Stock has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or such Common Stock has been issued upon conversion of Notes that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act, or unless otherwise agreed by the Issuer in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent: 13
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES THEREOF UNDER RULE 144(K) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD"), ONLY (A) TO XCEL ENERGY INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, (D) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) or (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THE SECURITY FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR," FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING UNDER RULE 144, IF AVAILABLE. IF ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IS PROPOSED TO BE MADE PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) ABOVE PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD (OR THE DATE OF REGISTRATION THEREOF), THE TRANSFEROR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO DELIVER A LETTER FROM THE TRANSFEREE TO THE TRANSFER AGENT WHICH SHALL PROVIDE, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT THE TRANSFEREE IS AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) or (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES TO ANY REQUIREMENT OF LAW THAT THE DISPOSITION OF ITS PROPERTY OR THE PROPERTY OF SUCH INVESTOR ACCOUNT OR ACCOUNTS BE AT ALL TIME WITHIN ITS OR THEIR CONTROL. EACH PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD, THE ISSUER AND THE TRUSTEE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD. Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.07(e). (f) Any Note or Common Stock issued upon the conversion or exchange of a Note that, prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), is purchased or owned by the Issuer or any Affiliate thereof may not be resold by the Issuer or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction which results in such Notes or Common Stock, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144). 14
Section 2.08 Replacement Notes. If (a) any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Issuer, the Trustee and, if applicable, the Authenticating Agent receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, and there is delivered to the Issuer, the Trustee and, if applicable, the Authenticating Agent such Note or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Issuer, the Trustee or, if applicable, the Authenticating Agent that such Note has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Issuer shall execute and upon their written request the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Note or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Note, a new Note of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Issuer in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Note, pay or purchase such Note, as the case may be. Upon the issuance of any new Notes under this Section 2.08, the Issuer may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any Authenticating Agent) connected therewith. Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.08 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Issuer, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder. The provisions of this Section 2.08 are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes. Section 2.09 Outstanding Notes; Determination of Holders' Action. Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it or delivered to it for cancellation, those paid pursuant to Section 2.08 and those described in this Section 2.09 as not outstanding. A Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Issuer or an Affiliate thereof holds the Note; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the outstanding Notes have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Notes owned by the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Notes or any Affiliate of the Issuer or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Notes which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Notes outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 9). If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser. If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on the Business Day following the Change of Control Repurchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then immediately after such Change of Control Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Notes shall cease to accrue. If a Note is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the conversion date, such Note shall cease to be outstanding and interest shall cease to accrue on such Note. Section 2.10 Temporary Notes. Pending the preparation of definitive Notes, the Issuer may execute, and upon an Issuer Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Notes which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Notes in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Notes may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Notes. 15
If temporary Notes are issued, the Issuer will cause definitive Notes to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Notes, the temporary Notes shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes upon surrender of the temporary Notes at the office or agency of the Issuer designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.04, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Notes the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Notes of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Notes. Section 2.11 Cancellation. All Notes surrendered for payment, purchase by the Issuer pursuant to Article 3, conversion or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Issuer may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Issuer may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Notes so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Issuer may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Notes shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Notes cancelled as provided in this Section 2.11, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Notes held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in its customary manner. Section 2.12 Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Note is registered as the owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Note or the payment of any Change of Control Repurchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Trustee nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Section 2.13 CUSIP Numbers. The Issuer in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. Section 2.14 Default Interest. If the Issuer defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay, or shall deposit with the Paying Agent money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay, the defaulted interest, plus (to the extent lawful) any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date. A special record date, as used in this Section 2.14 with respect to the payment of any defaulted interest, shall mean the 15th day next preceding the date fixed by the Issuer for the payment of defaulted interest, whether or not such day is a Business Day. At least 15 days before the subsequent special record date, the Issuer shall mail to each Holder and to the Trustee a notice that states the subsequent special record date, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest to be paid. ARTICLE 3 PURCHASES Section 3.01 Repurchase of Notes at Option of the Holder upon Change of Control. (a) If there shall have occurred a Change of Control, all or any portion of the Notes of any Holder equal to $1,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000, shall be repurchased by the Issuer, at the option of such Holder, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, together with interest (including Liquidated Damages) accrued and unpaid to, but excluding, the repurchase date (the "Change of Control Repurchase Price"), on the date (the "Change of Control Repurchase Date") that is 45 days after the date the Issuer delivered the notice required under Section 3.01(c) (or if such 45th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); provided, however, that installments of interest on Notes the Stated Maturity of which is prior to or on the Change of Control Repurchase Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Notes, or one or more predecessor Notes, registered as such on the relevant Regular Record Date according to their terms. 16
Whenever in this Indenture (including Sections 2.01, 6.01(a) and 6.07 hereof) or Exhibit A annexed hereto there is a reference, in any context, to the principal of any Note as of any time, such reference shall be deemed to include reference to the Change of Control Repurchase Price payable in respect to such Note to the extent that such Change of Control Repurchase Price is, was or would be so payable at such time, and express mention of the Change of Control Repurchase Price in any provision of this Indenture shall not be construed as excluding the Change of Control Repurchase Price in those provisions of this Indenture when such express mention is not made. A "Change of Control" of the Issuer shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur: (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), acquires the beneficial ownership (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a Person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such Person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or other acquisition transaction, of 50% or more of the total voting power of the Issuer's total outstanding Voting Stock other than an acquisition by the Issuer, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its employee benefit plans; (ii) the Issuer consolidates with, or merges with or into, another Person or conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any Person consolidates with or merges with or into the Issuer other than: (A) any transaction (1) that does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of outstanding shares of the Issuer's Capital Stock and (2) pursuant to which holders of the Issuer's Capital Stock immediately prior to such transaction have the entitlement to exercise, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of the Issuer's Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction; and (B) any merger solely for the purpose of changing the Issuer's jurisdiction of incorporation and resulting in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; (iii) during any consecutive two-year period, individuals who at the beginning of that two-year period constituted the Issuer's board of directors (together with any new directors whose election to such board of directors, or whose nomination for election by the Issuer's stockholders, was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority the Issuer's board of directors then in office; or (iv) the Issuer's stockholders pass a special resolution approving a plan of liquidation or dissolution and no additional approvals of the Issuer's stockholders are required under applicable law to cause a liquidation or dissolution. (b) Prior to or on the 30th day after the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Issuer, or, at the written request and expense of the Issuer prior to or on the 30th day after such occurrence, the Trustee, shall give to all Noteholders, in the manner provided in Section 12.02 hereof, notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control and of the repurchase right set forth herein arising as a result thereof. The Issuer shall also deliver a copy of such notice of a repurchase right to the Trustee. The notice shall include a form of Change of Control Repurchase Notice (as defined in Section 3.01(c)) to be completed by the Noteholder and shall state: 17
(1) briefly, the events causing a Change of Control and the date of such Change of Control; (2) the date by which the Change of Control Repurchase Notice pursuant to this Section 3.01 must be given; (3) the Change of Control Repurchase Date; (4) the Change of Control Repurchase Price; (5) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (6) the Conversion Price and any adjustments thereto; (7) that Notes as to which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Change of Control Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; (8) that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment; (9) that the Change of Control Repurchase Price for any Note as to which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Change of Control Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Note as described in (8) above; (10) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01; (11) briefly, the conversion rights of the Notes; (12) the procedures for withdrawing a Change of Control Repurchase Notice; (13) that, unless the Issuer defaults in making payment of such Change of Control Repurchase Price, interest on Notes submitted for repurchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change of Control Repurchase Date; and (14) the CUSIP number of the Notes. (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) hereof upon delivery of a written notice of purchase (a "Change of Control Repurchase Notice"), substantially in the form as set forth on the reverse of the Notes, to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Date, stating: (1) the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased; (2) the portion of the principal amount of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; (3) that such Note shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 6 of the Notes. The delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change of Control Repurchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change of Control Repurchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change of Control 18
Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Note so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change of Control Repurchase Notice. The Issuer shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Note if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Note also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Note. Any purchase by the Issuer contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder on the later of the Change of Control Repurchase Date and the time of delivery of the Note to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 3.01. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change of Control Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change of Control Repurchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02. The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Issuer of the receipt by it of any Change of Control Repurchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof. Section 3.02 Effect of Change of Control Repurchase Notice. Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change of Control Repurchase Notice specified in Section 3.01(c), the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Change of Control Repurchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change of Control Repurchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change of Control Repurchase Price with respect to such Note. Such Change of Control Repurchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipts of funds and/or Notes by the Paying Agent, promptly following the later of (x) the Change of Control Repurchase Date with respect to such Note (provided that the conditions in Section 3.01(c) have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Notes in respect of which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice, has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change of Control Repurchase Notice unless such Change of Control Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs. A Change of Control Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change of Control Repurchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Date specifying: (1) the certificate number of the Note in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, (2) the principal amount of the Note with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and (3) the principal amount, if any, of such Note which remains subject to the original Change of Control Repurchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Issuer. There shall be no repurchase of any Notes pursuant to Section 3.01 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Notes, of the required Change of Control Repurchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Repurchase Price with respect to such Notes). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes (x) with respect to which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default 19
in the payment of the Change of Control Repurchase Price with respect to such Notes) in which case, upon such return, the Change of Control Repurchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. Section 3.03 Deposit of Change of Control Repurchase Price. Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Change of Control Repurchase Date (or if such date is not a business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Issuer or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.05) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day), sufficient to pay the aggregate Change of Control Repurchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change of Control Repurchase Date. Section 3.04 Notes Purchased in Part. Any Note which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Issuer or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered which is not purchased. Section 3.05 Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Notes. In connection with any offer to purchase or repurchase of Notes under Section 3.01 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), the Issuer shall (i) comply with Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act which may then be applicable, (ii) file the related Schedule 13E-3 (or any successor schedule, form or report) or any other schedule required under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.01. Section 3.06 Repayment to the Issuer. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Issuer any cash that remain unclaimed as provided in paragraph 10 of the Notes, together with interest or dividends, if any, thereon, held by them for the payment of the Change of Control Repurchase Price; provided, however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Issuer pursuant to Section 3.05 exceeds the aggregate Change of Control Repurchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof which the Issuer is obligated to purchase as of the Change of Control Repurchase Date, then promptly after the Change of Control Repurchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Issuer together with interest, if any, thereon. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS Section 4.01 Payment of Principal, Premium, Interest on the Notes. The Issuer will duly and punctually pay the principal of interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) and any Additional Interest Amount, if any, in respect of the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and this Indenture. The Issuer will deposit or cause to be deposited with the Trustee as directed by the Trustee, no later than the day of the Stated Maturity of any Note or installment of interest, all payments so due. Principal amount, Change of Control Repurchase Price, and cash interest shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Change of Control Repurchase Price on the applicable Change of Control Repurchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money or Notes, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. The Issuer shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay cash interest on overdue amounts at the rate per annum set forth in paragraph 1 of the Notes, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on demand. 20
Section 4.02 Reports by the Issuer. The Issuer shall file with the Trustee (and the SEC after the Indenture becomes qualified under the TIA), and transmit to holders of Notes, such information, documents and other reports and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the TIA at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the TIA, whether or not the Notes are governed by the TIA; provided, however, that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within fifteen (15) days after the same is so required to be filed with the SEC. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Issuer' compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). Section 4.03 Compliance Certificate. The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Issuer (beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2003) an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Issuer is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Issuer shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. Section 4.04 Further Instruments and Acts. Upon request of the Trustee, the Issuer will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture. Section 4.05 Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Issuer will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York or elsewhere, an office or agency of the Trustee, Note Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, purchase or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Corporate Trust Office and each office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, shall initially be one such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Issuer shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Issuer shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02. The Issuer may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Issuer of their obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, for such purposes. Section 4.06 Delivery of Certain Information. At any time when the Issuer is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a holder or any beneficial holder of Notes or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, the Issuer will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder or any beneficial holder of Notes or holder of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such holder, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act in connection with the resale of any such security. "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Section 4.07 Existence. Subject to Article 5, the Issuer will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence and rights (charter and statutory); provided, however, that the Issuer shall not be required to preserve any such right if the Issuer shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable or useful in the conduct of the business of the Issuer and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Noteholders. Section 4.08 Maintenance of Properties. The Issuer will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Significant Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, 21
repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Issuer may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Issuer from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Issuer, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Significant Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Noteholders. Section 4.09 Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. The Issuer will pay or discharge, or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same may become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary, (ii) all claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien or charge upon the property of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary and (iii) all stamps and other duties, if any, which may be imposed by the United States or any political subdivision thereof or therein in connection with the issuance, transfer, exchange or conversion of any Notes or with respect to this Indenture; provided, however, that, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), the Issuer shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim (A) if the failure to do so will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Issuer, or (B) if the amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. Section 4.10 Liquidated Damages Notice. In the event that the Issuer is required to pay Liquidated Damages to holders of Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Issuer will provide written notice ("Liquidated Damages Notice") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay Liquidated Damages no later than fifteen days prior to the proposed payment date for the Liquidated Damages, and the Liquidated Damages Notice shall set forth the amount of Liquidated Damages to be paid by the Issuer on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or owe a responsibility to any holder of Notes to determine the Liquidated Damages, or with respect to the nature, extent or calculation of the amount of Liquidated Damages when made, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Liquidated Damages. Section 4.11 Additional Interest Notice. In the event the Issuer is required to pay amounts pursuant to the terms hereof, the Issuer shall provide a notice (an "Additional Interest Payment Notice") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay an Additional Interest Amount no later than fifteen days prior to the payment date for the Additional Payment Amount, and the Additional Interest Payment Notice shall set forth the dividend per share of Common Stock payable by the Issuer on the Common Stock on the related record date, the related dividend payment date, the aggregate amount of Additional Interest Amounts to be paid and the amount of Additional Interest Amount to be paid per each $1,000 principal amount of a Note by the Issuer on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under a duty or owe a responsibility to any holder of the Notes to determine the amount of the Protection Payment, or with respect to the nature, extent or calculation of the amount of Protection Payments when made, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Protection Payments. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 5.01 When Issuer May Merge or Transfer Assets. The Issuer shall not consolidate with, merge with or into any other person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless: (a) either (1) the Issuer shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the person (if other than the Issuer) formed by such consolidation or into which such Issuer is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such Issuer (i) shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States or any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (ii) shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Issuer under the Notes and this Indenture; 22
(b) at the time of and after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and (c) the Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article 5 and Section 10.11 hereof and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied. For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Issuer or another Subsidiary) which, if such assets were owned by the Issuer, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Issuer, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Issuer. The successor person formed by such consolidation or into which the Issuer is merged or the successor person to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Issuer under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Issuer herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Issuer may have under a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.11, the Issuer shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Notes. Subject to Section 9.06, the Issuer, the Trustee and the successor person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor person and such discharge and release of the Issuer. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Section 6.01 Events of Default. An "Event of Default" occurs if: (a) the Issuer fail to pay when due the principal on any of the Notes at maturity or exercise of a repurchase right or otherwise; (b) the Issuer fails to pay an installment of interest (including Liquidated Damages and Additional Interest Amounts, if any) on any of the Notes that continues for 30 days after the date when due; (c) the Issuer fails to deliver shares of Common Stock, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, when such shares of Common Stock or cash in lieu of fractional shares is required to be delivered upon conversion of a Note and such failure continues for 10 days after such are required to be delivered; (d) the Issuer fails to give notice regarding a Change of Control within the time period specified in Section 3.01(b); (e) the Issuer fails to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in the Notes or this Indenture for a period of 60 days after receipt by the Issuer of a Notice of Default (as defined below); (f) (i) the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary fails to make any payment by the end of the applicable grace period, if any, after the final scheduled payment date for such payment with respect to any indebtedness for borrowed money in an aggregate amount in excess of $50 million or (ii) indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary in an aggregate amount in excess of $50 million shall have been accelerated or otherwise declared due and payable, or required to be prepaid or repurchased (other than by regularly scheduled required prepayment) prior to the scheduled maturity thereof as a result of a default with respect to such indebtedness, in either case without such indebtedness referred to in subclause (i) or (ii) of this clause (f) having been discharged, cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Issuer of a Notice of Default; 23
(g) the Issuer fails to pay when due the principal of, or any acceleration of, any of the notes (including the First Notes, as defined in the Citadel Securities Purchase Agreement) issued pursuant to the Citadel Securities Purchase Agreement; (h) the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (v) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or (vi) consents to the filing of such a petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian; (i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary insolvent or bankrupt; (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its or their properties; or (iii) orders the winding up or liquidation of an Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days; and For purposes of Sections 6.01(h) and 6.01(i) above: "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. A Default under clause (e) or (f) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Issuer, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding notify the Issuer and the Trustee, of the Default and the Issuer does not cure such Default (and such Default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (e) or (f) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "Notice of Default." The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, within five Business Days of becoming aware of the occurrence of an Event of Default, written notice thereof. In addition, the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after they become aware of the occurrence thereof, written notice of any event which with the lapse of time would 24
become an Event of Default under clause (e) above, its status and what action the Issuer is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. Section 6.02 Acceleration. If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h) or (i)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Issuer, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding by notice to the Issuer and the Trustee, may declare the Notes due and payable at their principal amount together with accrued interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any). Upon a declaration of acceleration, such principal and accrued and unpaid interest to the date of payment shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default is cured prior to any such declaration by the Trustee or the Holders, the Trustee and the Holders shall not be entitled to declare the Notes due and payable as provided herein as a result of such cured Event of Default and any such cured Event of Default shall be deemed waived by the Holders and the Trustee. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h) or (i) above occurs and is continuing, then the principal and the accrued interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) on all the Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Noteholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Noteholder) may rescind or annul an acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the principal and any accrued cash interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) that have become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.06 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto. Section 6.03 Other Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal and any accrued cash interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Notes or produce any of the Notes in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Noteholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative. Section 6.04 Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Noteholder), may waive an existing Event of Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(a) or (b), (2) an Event of Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Noteholder affected or (3) an Event of Default which constitutes a failure to convert any Note in accordance with the terms of Article 10. When an Event of Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Event of Default or impair any consequent right. Section 6.05 Control by Majority. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is prejudicial to the rights of other Noteholders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability unless the Trustee is offered indemnity satisfactory to it against loss, liability or expense. Section 6.06 Limitation on Suits. A Noteholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes unless: (1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing; 25
(2) the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; (3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense; (4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of security or indemnity; and (5) the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request during such 60-day period. A Noteholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Noteholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Noteholder. Section 6.07 Rights of Holders To Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount, Change of Control Repurchase Price or any accrued cash interest (including Liquidated Damages and Additional Interest Amounts, if any) in respect of the Notes held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Notes and to convert the Notes in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or the right to convert, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder. Section 6.08 Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Issuer for the whole amount owing with respect to the Notes and the amounts provided for in Section 7.06. Section 6.09 Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Notes or the property of the Issuer or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal amount, accrued cash interest in respect of the Notes or any Change of Control Repurchase Price shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Issuer for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal amount, any accrued and unpaid interest (including, without limitation Additional Interest Amounts and Liquidated Damages) or any Change of Control Repurchase Price and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel or any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrate or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the 26
Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. Section 6.10 Priorities. If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order: (1) to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.06; (2) to Noteholders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for the principal amount, Change of Control Repurchase Price or any accrued cash interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any), as the case may be, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Notes; and (3) the balance, if any, to the Issuer. The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Noteholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Noteholder and the Issuer a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid. Section 6.11 Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit in the manner and to the extent provided in the TIA, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Section 6.12 Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws. The Issuer covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Issuer from paying all or any portion of the principal amount, Change of Control Repurchase Price or any accrued cash interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) in respect of Notes, or any interest on such amounts, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and each Issuer (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE Section 7.01 Duties and Responsibilities of the Trustee; During Default; Prior to Default. The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default which may have occurred, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture. In case an Event of Default hereunder has occurred (which has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs. No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that 27
(a) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default which may have occurred: (i) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture; (b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders pursuant to Section 6.05 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture. None of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers. Section 7.02 Certain Rights of the Trustee. Subject to Section 7.01: (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, Officers' Certificate or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, Note or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) any request, direction, order or demand of the Issuer mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer; (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel; (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the trusts, rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Noteholders pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Noteholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred therein or thereby; (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; 28
(f) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security, or other paper or document unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; provided that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding; the reasonable expenses of every such investigation shall be paid by the Issuer or, if paid by the Trustee or any predecessor trustee, shall be repaid by the Issuer upon demand; (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys not regularly in its employ and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; (h) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture; and (i) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder. Section 7.03 Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals, Dispositions of Notes or Application of Proceeds Thereof. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Issuer of any of the Notes or of the proceeds thereof. Section 7.04 Trustee and Agents May Hold Notes; Collections, etc. The Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent and, subject to Sections 7.08 and 7.13, if operative, may otherwise deal with the Issuer and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Issuer with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent. Section 7.05 Moneys Held by Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.03 hereof, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law. Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder. The Trustee may allow and credit to the Issuer interest on any money received hereunder at such rate, if any, as may be agreed upon by the Issuer and the Trustee from time to time as may be permitted by law. Section 7.06 Compensation and Indemnification of Trustee and its Prior Claim. The Issuer covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust) to be agreed to in writing by the Trustee and the Issuer, and the Issuer covenants and agrees to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee upon its request for all expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by or on behalf of it in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including (i) the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other persons not regularly in its employ and (ii) interest at the prime rate on any disbursements and advances made by the Trustee and not paid by the Issuer within 5 days after receipt of an invoice for such disbursement or advance) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its own negligence or bad faith. The Issuer also covenants 29
to fully indemnify each of the Trustee, each predecessor Trustee, any Authenticating Agent and any officer, director, employee or agent of the Trustee, each such predecessor Trustee or any such Authenticating Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, claim, damage or expense (including legal fees and expenses) incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Indenture or the trusts hereunder and its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim of liability in the premises. The obligations of the Issuer under this Section 7.06 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee, each predecessor Trustee, any Authenticating Agent and any officer, director, employee or agent of the Trustee, each such predecessor Trustee or any such Authenticating Agent and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. Such additional indebtedness shall be a senior claim to that of the Notes upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Notes, and the Notes are hereby effectively subordinated to such senior claim to such extent. The provisions of this Section 7.06 shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. Section 7.07 Right of Trustee to Rely on Officers' Certificate, etc. Subject to Sections 7.01 and 7.02, whenever in the administration of the trusts of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof. Section 7.08 Conflicting Interests. If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the TIA, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the TIA. Section 7.09 Persons Eligible for Appointment as Trustee. The Trustee shall at all times be a corporation or banking association having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation or banking association publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 7.09, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10. Section 7.10 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor Trustee. (a) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign with respect to the Notes by giving written notice of resignation to the Issuer and by mailing notice thereof by first class mail to the Holders of Notes at their last addresses as they shall appear on the Note Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Issuer shall promptly appoint a successor trustee or trustees by written instrument in duplicate, executed by authority of the Board of Directors of the Issuer, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee or trustees. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after the mailing of such notice of resignation, the resigning trustee may petition, at the expense of the Issuer, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Noteholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Note for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 7.11, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee. (b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur: (i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 with respect to any Notes after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Noteholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Note for at least six months; or 30
(ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Noteholder; or (iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver or liquidator of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation; or (iv) the Issuer shall determine that the Trustee has failed to perform its obligations under this Indenture in any material respect; then, in any such case, the Issuer may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Issuer, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 7.11, any Noteholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Note for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after a notice of removal has been given, the removed trustee may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee. (c) The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee by delivering to the Trustee so removed, to the successor trustee so appointed and to the Issuer the evidence provided for in Section 1.05 of the action in that regard taken by the Noteholders. (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and any appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 7.10 shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11. Section 7.11 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor Trustee. Any successor trustee appointed as provided in Section 7.10 shall execute and deliver to the Issuer and to the predecessor trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as trustee hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Issuer or of the successor trustee, upon payment of its charges then unpaid, the trustee ceasing to act shall pay over to the successor trustee all moneys at the time held by it hereunder and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all such rights, powers, duties and obligations. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Issuer shall execute any and all instruments in writing for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers. Any trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a prior claim upon all property or funds held or collected by such trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06. No successor trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 7.11 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09. Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor trustee as provided in this Section 7.11, the Issuer shall mail notice thereof by first class mail to the Holders of Notes at their last addresses as they shall appear in the Note Register. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the resignation, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by Section 7.10. If the Issuer fail to mail such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be mailed at the expense of the Issuer. 31
Section 7.12 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business of Trustee. Any corporation or banking association into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation or banking association resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation or banking association succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder; provided that such corporation or banking association shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Notes shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or Authenticating Agent and deliver such Notes so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Notes shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent appointed by such successor Trustee may authenticate such Notes either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force and effect that this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee; provided that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Notes in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation. Section 7.13 Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Issuer. If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Issuer (or any other obligor upon the Notes), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the TIA regarding the collection of the claims against such Issuer (or any such other obligor). Section 7.14 Reports by the Trustee. (a) Within sixty (60) days after July 15 of each year commencing with the year 2003, the Trustee shall transmit by mail a brief report as of such date that complies with Section 313(a) of the TIA (to the extent required by such Section). (b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Noteholders, be furnished to the Issuer and be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Notes are listed and also with the SEC. The Issuer agrees to notify the Trustee when and as the Notes become admitted to trading on any national securities exchange or become delisted therefrom. Section 7.15 Trustee to Give Notice of Default, but May Withhold in Certain Circumstances. The Trustee shall transmit to the Noteholders, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Note Register, notice by mail of all Defaults which have occurred, such notice to be transmitted within 90 days after the occurrence thereof, unless such defaults shall have been cured before the giving of such notice; provided that, except in the case of Default in the payment of the principal of, or interest (including Liquidated Damages, if any) on any of the Notes when due or in the payment of any repurchase obligation, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the best interests of the Noteholders. The Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of a Default or an Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have actual knowledge thereof. ARTICLE 8 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE Section 8.01 Discharge of Indenture. When the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled and if the Issuer shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Issuer, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect, and the Trustee, on written demand of the Issuer accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 12.04 and at the cost and expense of the Issuer, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture; the Issuer, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee in connection with this Indenture or the Notes. 32
Section 8.02 Paying Agent to Repay Monies Held. Upon the discharge of this Indenture, all monies then held by any Paying Agent of the Notes (other than the Trustee) shall, upon written request of the Issuer, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such monies. Section 8.03 Return of Unclaimed Monies. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, any monies deposited with or paid to the Trustee or the Paying Agent for payment of the principal of or interest on Notes and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the holders of Notes for two years after the date upon which the principal of or interest on such Notes, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Issuer by the Trustee or the Paying Agent on written demand and all liability of the Trustee or the Paying Agent shall thereupon cease with respect to such monies; and the holder of any of the Notes shall thereafter look only to the Issuer for any payment that such holder may be entitled to collect unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person. ARTICLE 9 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 9.01 Without Consent of Holders. The Issuer and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto without the consent of any Noteholder for one or more of the following purposes: (a) adding to the Issuer's covenants for the benefit of the Holders; (b) surrendering any right or power conferred upon the Issuer; (c) providing for the assumption of the Issuer's obligations to the Holders in the case of a merger, consolidation, conveyance, transfer or lease in accordance with Article 5; (d) reducing the Conversion Price; provided that the reduction will not adversely affect the interests of Holders in any material respect; (e) complying with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; (f) making any changes or modifications to this Indenture necessary in connection with the registration of the Notes under the Securities Act as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement; provided that this action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect; (g) curing any ambiguity or correcting or supplementing any defective or inconsistent provision contained in this Indenture; provided that such modification or amendment does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect; or (h) adding, modifying or eliminating any other provisions which the Issuer and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which will not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or the Notes, the Registration Rights Agreement and the obligation to pay Liquidated Damages thereunder may be amended, modified or waived in accordance with the provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement. Section 9.02 With Consent of Holders. With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, the Issuer and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or change in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or any supplemental 33
indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes. However, without the consent of each Noteholder so affected, a supplemental indenture may not: (a) change the maturity of the principal of or any installment of interest on any Note (including any payment of Liquidated Damages); (b) reduce the principal amount of, or interest on (including any payment of Liquidated Damages or Additional Interest Amounts), any Note; (c) change the currency of payment of such Note or interest thereon; (d) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to any Note; (e) except as otherwise permitted or contemplated by provisions concerning corporate reorganizations, adversely affect the repurchase option of Holders upon a Change of Control or the conversion rights of Holders; (f) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding necessary to modify or amend this Indenture or to waive any past default. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After a supplemental indenture under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Issuer shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture. Section 9.03 Compliance with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA; provided that this Section 9.03 shall not require such supplemental indenture or the Trustee to be qualified under the TIA prior to the time such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the TIA or the Indenture has been qualified under the TIA, nor shall it constitute any admission or acknowledgment by any party to such supplemental indenture that any such qualification is required prior to the time such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the TIA or the Indenture has been qualified under the TIA. Section 9.04 Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions. Until a supplemental indenture, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Note hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Note or portion of the Note that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Note or portion of the Note if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the supplemental indenture, waiver or action becomes effective. After a supplemental indenture, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Noteholder. Section 9.05 Notation on or Exchange of Notes. Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Issuer shall so determine, new Notes so modified as to conform, in the opinion the Board of Directors of the Issuer, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Issuer and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent in exchange for outstanding Notes. Section 9.06 Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures. The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such 34
supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. Section 9.07 Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Notes theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. ARTICLE 10 CONVERSION Section 10.01 Conversion Privilege. A Holder of a Note may convert such Note into Common Stock at any time during the period stated under the heading "Conversion" set forth in the Notes. The number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Note per $1,000 of principal amount thereof (the "Conversion Rate") shall be that set forth under the heading "Conversion" in the Notes. In the case of a Change of Control for which the Holder exercises its repurchase right with respect to a Note or portion thereof, such conversion right in respect of the Note or portion thereof shall expire at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Date. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in certain instances as provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 10.04 hereof and may be increased as provided in Section 10.13 hereof. Section 10.02 Exercise of Conversion Right. To exercise the conversion right, the Holder of any Note to be converted shall surrender such Note duly endorsed or assigned to the Issuer or in blank, at the office of any Conversion Agent, accompanied by a duly signed conversion notice substantially in the form attached to the Note to the Issuer stating that the Holder elects to convert such Note or, if less than the entire principal amount thereof is to be converted, the portion thereof to be converted. Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date to the opening of business on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date shall be accompanied by payment in New York Clearing House funds or other funds acceptable to the Issuer of an amount equal to the interest to be received on such Interest Payment Date on the principal amount of Notes being surrendered for conversion. Notes shall be deemed to have been converted immediately prior to the close of business on the day on which the Notes being surrendered for conversion, the conversion notice and any funds as may be required pursuant to the preceding paragraph are delivered to a Conversion Agent in accordance with the foregoing provisions, and at such time the rights of the Holders of such Notes as Holders shall cease, and the Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock at such time. As promptly as practicable on or after the conversion date, and subject to Section 10.08 hereof, the Issuer shall cause to be issued and delivered to such Conversion Agent a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 10.03 hereof. In the case of any Note which is converted in part only, upon such conversion the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Note or Notes of authorized denominations in aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the principal amount of such Notes. If shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of a Note that is a Restricted Security (a "Restricted Note"), or securities to be issued upon conversion of a Restricted Note in part only, are to be registered in a name other than that of the Holder of such Restricted Note, such Holder must deliver to the Conversion Agent a certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, dated the date of surrender of such Restricted Note and 35
signed by such Holder, as to compliance with the restrictions on transfer applicable to such Restricted Note. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent, Note Registrar or transfer agent shall be required to register in a name other than that of the Holder of Notes any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of any such Restricted Note not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate. Section 10.03 Fractions of Shares. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any Note or Notes. If more than one Note shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares which shall be issued upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (or specified portions thereof) so surrendered. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock which would otherwise be issued upon conversion of any Note or Notes (or specified portions thereof), the Issuer shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction (calculated to the nearest one-100th of a share) in an amount equal to the same fraction of the quoted price of the Common Stock as of the Trading Day preceding the date of conversion. Section 10.04 Adjustment of Conversion Rate. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Note also apply to conversion of a portion of a Note. As used herein "Average Sale Price" means the average of the Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the shorter of (i) 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last full Trading Day prior to the Time of Determination with respect to the rights, warrants or options or distribution in respect of which the Average Sale Price is being calculated, or (ii) the period (x) commencing on the date next succeeding the first public announcement of (a) the issuance of rights, warrants or options or (b) the distribution, in each case, in respect of which the Average Sale Price is being calculated and (y) proceeding through the last full Trading Day prior to the Time of Determination with respect to the rights, warrants or options or distribution in respect of which the Average Sale Price is being calculated (excluding days within such period, if any, which are not Trading Days), or (iii) the period, if any, (x) commencing on the date next succeeding the Ex-Dividend Time with respect to the next preceding (a) issuance of rights, warrants or options or (b) distribution, in each case, for which an adjustment is required by the provisions of Section 10.04(a)(4), 10.04(b) and 10.04(c) and (y) proceeding through the last full Trading Day prior to the Time of Determination with respect to the rights, warrants or options or distribution in respect of which the Average Sale Price is being calculated (excluding days within such period, if any, which are not Trading Days). In the event that the Ex-Dividend Time (or in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the effective date with respect thereto) with respect to a dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification to which Section 10.04(a)(1), (2), (3) or (5) applies occurs during the period applicable for calculating "Average Sale Price" pursuant to the definition in the preceding sentence, "Average Sale Price" shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined by the Board of Directors to reflect the impact of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification on the Sale Price of the Common Stock during such period. "Time of Determination" means the time and date of the earlier of (i) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution, in each case, to which Section 10.04(b) or 10.04(c) applies or (ii) the time ("Ex-Dividend Time") immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the New York Stock Exchange or such other principal national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted. (a) Adjustment for change in Capital Stock. If, on or after the Issue Date of the Notes, the Issuer: 36
(1) pays a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock in shares of its Common Stock; (2) subdivides its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares; (3) combines its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares; (4) pays a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock in shares of its Capital Stock (other than Common Stock or rights, warrants or options for its Capital Stock); (5) issues by reclassification of its Common Stock any shares of its Capital Stock (other than rights, warrants or options for its Capital Stock); then the conversion privilege, Conversion Price and the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of a Note thereafter converted may receive the number of shares of Capital Stock of the Issuer which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had converted the Note immediately prior to such action. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification. If after an adjustment a Holder of a Note upon conversion of such Note may receive shares of two or more classes of Capital Stock of the Issuer, the Conversion Rate shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of Capital Stock as is contemplated by this Article Ten with respect to the Common Stock, on terms comparable to those applicable to Common Stock in this Article Ten. (b) Adjustment for Rights Issue. If on or after the Issue Date of the Notes, the Issuer distributes any rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Sale Price of the Common Stock as of the Time of Determination, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
R' = R x (O + N) ---------------- (O + (N x P)/M)
where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for the distribution to which this Section is being applied. N = the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered pursuant to the distribution. P = the offering price per share of the additional shares. M = the Average Sale Price, minus, in the case of (i) a distribution to which Section 10.04(a)(4) applies or (ii) a distribution to which Section 10.04(c) applies, for which, in each case, (x) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(b) applies and (y) the Ex-Dividend Time shall 37
occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(b) applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(b) applies) of the (1) Capital Stock of the Issuer distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.04(a)(4) distribution; and (2) assets of the Issuer or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Issuer distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.04(c) distribution. The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.04(b). The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 10.04(b) applies. If all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such rights, warrants or options have not been issued when such rights, warrants or options expire, then the Conversion Rate shall promptly be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustment upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of the actual number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such rights, warrants or options. No adjustment shall be made under this Section 10.04(b) if the application of the formula stated above in this Section 10.04(b) would result in a value of R' that is equal to or less than the value of R. (c) Adjustment for Other Distributions. (i) If, on or after the Issue Date of the Notes, the Issuer distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any of its assets (including shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary but excluding distributions of Capital Stock or equity interests referred to in Section 10.04(c)(ii)), or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Issuer (including securities or cash, but excluding (x) distributions of Capital Stock referred to in Section 10.04(a) and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 10.04(b) and (y) cash dividends (including Regular Quarterly Dividends) or other cash distributions that are paid out of consolidated current net earnings or earnings retained in the business as shown on the books of the Issuer unless such cash dividends or other cash distributions are Extraordinary Cash Dividends), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 10.04(c)(iii) in accordance with the formula:
R' = R x M ----- M - F
where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. M = the Average Sale Price, minus, in the case of a distribution to which Section 10.04(a)(4) applies, for which (i) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) applies) of any Capital Stock of the Issuer distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.04(a)(4) distribution. F = the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) applies) of the assets, securities, rights, warrants or options to be distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) is being applied (including, in the case of cash dividends or other cash distributions giving rise to an adjustment, all such cash distributed concurrently). 38
The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.04(c)(i). The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 10.04(c)(i) applies. For purposes of this Section 10.04(c)(i), the term "Extraordinary Cash Dividend" shall mean any cash dividend (other than Regular Quarterly Dividends) with respect to the Common Stock the amount of which, together with the aggregate amount of cash dividends (other than Regular Quarterly Dividends) on the Common Stock to be aggregated with such cash dividend in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, equals or exceeds the threshold percentage set forth in item (aa) below. For purposes of item (aa) below, the "Measurement Period" with respect to a cash dividend on the Common Stock shall mean the 365 consecutive day period ending on the date prior to the Ex-Dividend Time with respect to such cash dividend, and the "Relevant Cash Dividends" with respect to a cash dividend on the Common Stock shall mean the cash dividends (other than Regular Quarterly Dividends) on the Common Stock with Ex-Dividend Times occurring in the Measurement Period. (aa) If, upon the date prior to the Ex-Dividend Time with respect to a cash dividend (other than Regular Quarterly Dividends) on the Common Stock, the aggregate amount of such cash dividend together with the amounts of all Relevant Cash Dividends equals or exceeds on a per share basis the sum of 5% of the Sale Price of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day preceding the date of declaration by the Board of Directors of the cash dividend with respect to which this provision is being applied, then such cash dividend together with all Relevant Cash Dividends, shall be deemed to be an Extraordinary Cash Dividend and for purposes of applying the formula set forth above in this Section 10.04(c)(i), the value of "F" shall be equal to (y) the aggregate amount of such cash dividend together with the amount of all Relevant Cash Dividends, minus (z) the aggregate amount of all Relevant Cash Dividends for which a prior adjustment in the Conversion Rate was previously made under this Section 10.04(c)(i). In making the determinations required by item (aa) above, the amount of cash dividends paid on a per share basis and the amount of any Relevant Cash Dividends specified in item (aa) above, shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 10.04(a). (ii) If, on or after the Issue Date of the Notes, the Issuer pays a dividend or makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock consisting of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Issuer, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: R' = R x (1 + F/M) where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. M = the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the date on which "ex-dividend trading" commences for such dividend or distribution on the principal United States exchange or market which such securities are then listed or quoted (the "Ex-Dividend Date"). F = the fair market value of the securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock for which this Section 10.04(c)(ii) shall mean the number of securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock multiplied by the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of those securities distributed for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date. "Post-Distribution Price" of Capital Stock or any similar equity interest on any date means the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a 39
"when issued" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated; provided that if on any date such units have not traded on a "when issued" basis, the Post-Distribution Price shall be the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "regular way" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated. In the absence of such quotation, the Issuer shall be entitled to determine the Post-Distribution Price on the basis of such quotations which reflect the post-distribution value of the Capital Stock or equity interests as it considers appropriate. (iii) In the event that, with respect to any distribution to which Section 10.04(c)(i) would otherwise apply, the difference "M-F" as defined in the formula set forth in Section 10.04(c)(i) is less than $1.00 or "F" is equal to or greater than "M", then the adjustment provided by Section 10.04(c)(i) shall not be made and in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 10.11 shall apply to such distribution. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary no adjustment in the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would require a change of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate then in effect at such time. Any adjustment that would otherwise be required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. Subject to Section 10.13, after an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article Ten, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. In the event that this Article 10 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 10.04(a)(4), 10.04(b) or 10.04(c), and the record dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 10.04(a), second, the provisions of Section 10.04(c) and, third, the provisions of Section 10.04(b). Section 10.05 Notice of Adjustments of Conversion Price. Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided for which the required notice has been provided), the Issuer shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee an Officers' Certificate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based together with a certificate from the Issuer's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the method of computing such adjustment. Promptly after delivery of such Officers' Certificate, the Issuer shall prepare a notice stating that the Conversion Price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective, and shall mail such notice to each Holder at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Note Register within 20 days of the effective date of such adjustment. Failure to deliver such notice shall not effect the legality or validity of any such adjustment. Section 10.06 Notice Prior to Certain Actions. In case at any time after the date hereof: (1) the Issuer shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of its capital surplus or its consolidated retained earnings; (2) the Issuer shall authorize the granting to the holders of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any shares of Capital Stock of any class (or of securities convertible into shares of Capital Stock of any class) or of any other rights; 40
(3) there shall occur any reclassification of the Common Stock of the Issuer (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, a change in par value, a change from par value to no par value or a change from no par value to par value), or any merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or combination to which the Issuer is a party and for which approval of any shareholders of the Issuer is required, or the sale, transfer or conveyance of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer; or (4) there shall occur the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Issuer; the Issuer shall cause to be filed at each office or agency maintained for the purpose of conversion of Notes pursuant to Section 4.05 hereof, and shall cause to be provided to the Trustee and all Holders in accordance with Section 12.02 hereof, at least 20 days (or 10 days in any case specified in clause (1) or (2) above) prior to the applicable record or effective date hereinafter specified, a notice stating: (A) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution, rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution, rights or warrants are to be determined, or (B) the date on which such reclassification, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale, transfer, conveyance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities, cash or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Neither the failure to give such notice nor any defect therein shall affect the legality or validity of the proceedings or actions described in clauses (1) through (4) of this Section 10.06. Section 10.07 Issuer to Reserve Common Stock. The Issuer shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of Notes, the full number of shares of fully paid and nonassessable Common Stock then issuable upon the conversion of all Notes outstanding. Section 10.08 Taxes on Conversions. Except as provided in the next sentence, the Issuer will pay any and all taxes (other than taxes on income) and duties that may be payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Notes pursuant hereto. A Holder delivering a Note for conversion shall be liable for and will be required to pay any tax or duty which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the Holder of the Note or Notes to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless the Person requesting such issue has paid to the Issuer the amount of any such tax or duty, or has established to the satisfaction of the Issuer that such tax or duty has been paid. Section 10.09 Covenant as to Common Stock. The Issuer covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued upon conversion of Notes will upon issue (i) be fully paid and nonassessable and, except as provided in Section 10.08, the Issuer will pay all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof and (ii) be entitled to receive the appropriate number of common stock or preferred stock purchase rights, as the case may be (the "Rights"), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Issuer, as the same may be amended from time to time (in each case, a "Rights Agreement"). Provided that such Rights Agreement requires that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights be entitled to receive such Rights, then, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this Article 10, there shall not be any adjustment to the Conversion Rate as a result of the issuance of Rights, the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights, the 41
exercise or redemption of such Rights in accordance with any such Rights Agreement, or the termination or invalidation of such Rights. Section 10.10 Cancellation of Converted Notes. All Notes delivered for conversion shall be delivered to the Trustee to be canceled by or at the direction of the Trustee, which shall dispose of the same as provided in Section 2.11. Section 10.11 Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale. If the Company is a party to (1) a transaction subject to 5.01 (other than a sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash or other assets of the Issuer or any other person) or (2) or a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes its outstanding Common Stock, the person obligated to deliver securities, cash or other assets upon conversion of the Notes shall enter into a supplemental indenture (and if the issuer of securities deliverable upon conversion of the Notes is an Affiliate of the successor Issuer, that issuer shall join in such supplemental indenture) with the Trustee (which shall comply with the TIA as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing that such Notes shall be convertible into the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities or property or assets (including cash) which such Holder would have been entitled to receive upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance had such Notes been converted into Common Stock immediately prior to such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance assuming such holder of Common Stock did not exercise its rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance (provided that, if the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance is not the same for each share of Common Stock in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("Non-Electing Share"), then for the purposes of this Section 10.11 the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance for each Non-Electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the Non-Electing Shares). Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, the stock or other securities and assets receivable thereupon by a holder of shares of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a corporation other than the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, in such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other corporation and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Notes as the Board of Directors of the Issuer shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing, including to the extent practicable the provisions providing for the repurchase rights set forth in Section 3.01 hereof. The Issuer shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder, at the address of such Holder as it appears on the Note Register, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture. The above provisions of this Section 10.11 shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, mergers, consolidations, statutory share exchanges, combinations, sales and conveyances. If this Section 10.11 applies to any event or occurrence, neither Section 10.04(a) nor Section 10.04(b) hereof applies. If the Company makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of any of its assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company that, but for the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.04(c)(iii), would otherwise result in an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.04(c), then, from and after the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution, a Holder of a Note that converts such Note in accordance with the 42
provisions of this Indenture shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock into which the Note is convertible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such Holder would have received if such Holder had converted the Note immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution. Section 10.12 Responsibility of Trustee for Conversion Provisions. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 hereof, and any Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Notes to determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Price, or with respect to the nature or intent of any such adjustments when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. Neither the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 hereof, nor any Conversion Agent shall be accountable with respect to the validity or value (of the kind or amount) of any Common Stock, or of any other securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Note; and it or they do not make any representation with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 hereof, nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Issuer to make any cash payment or to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of stock or share certificates or other securities or property upon the surrender of any Note for the purpose of conversion; and the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 hereof, and any Conversion Agent shall not be responsible or liable for any failure of the Issuer to comply with any of the covenants of the Issuer contained in this Article. Section 10.13 Voluntary Increase. The Issuer from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of at least 20 days. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased, the Issuer shall mail to holders of the Notes and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice of the increase. The Issuer shall mail the notice at least 15 days before the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect. The notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period it will be in effect. A voluntary increase of the Conversion Rate does not change or adjust the Conversion Rate otherwise in effect for purposes of Section 10.04(a), 10.04(b) or 10.04(c). ARTICLE 11 PROTECTION PAYMENTS Section 11.01 Additional Interest Amounts. (a) In the event the Issuer or its Board of Directors declares a Regular Quarterly Dividend on its Common Stock that is greater than $0.1875 per share (the "Current Quarterly Dividend"), the Issuer shall pay to each Holder of record as of the record date for such dividend an amount equal to the product of (i) the positive difference between (A) such quarterly per share dividend declared by the Issuer and (B) the Current Quarterly Dividend multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock such Holder would possess had such Holder converted its Notes into shares of Common Stock as of the record date for such dividend (each such payment an "Additional Interest Amount" and, collectively, the "Additional Interest Amounts"), provided, however, such amount shall not be due and no payment with respect thereto shall be made with respect to the Notes unless such Regular Quarterly Dividend is paid to holders of Common Stock. The payment date for an Additional Interest Amount shall be the same as the payment date for the dividend to which the Additional Interest Amount relates. Holders of Notes shall not be entitled to receive any Additional Interest Amount with respect to any dividend that causes an adjustment to the Conversion Rate. (b) If any of the events contemplated by Section 10.04(a) occurs, the Current Quarterly Dividend shall be adjusted so that the holders of the Notes will be entitled to receive payment in the same amount such Holders would have been entitled to if such event in 10.04(a) had not occurred. ARTICLE 12 MISCELLANEOUS Section 12.01 Trust Indenture Act Controls. This Indenture is hereby made subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the TIA required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the TIA; 43
provided, however, that, unless otherwise required by law, notwithstanding the foregoing, this Indenture and the Notes issued hereunder shall not be subject to the provisions of subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of Section 314 of the TIA as now in effect or as hereafter amended or modified; provided further that this Section 12.01 shall not require this Indenture or the Trustee to be qualified under the TIA prior to the time such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the TIA, nor shall it constitute any admission or acknowledgment by any party to the Indenture that any such qualification is required prior to the time such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the TIA. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control. Section 12.02 Notices. Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers: if to the Issuer: Xcel Energy Inc. Attention Corporate Secretary 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 Facsimile: (612) 215-4504 if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association Attention: Corporate Trust Services N9303-120 Sixth and Marquette Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479 Facsimile: (612) 667-9825 The Issuer or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication given to a Noteholder shall be mailed to the Noteholder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Noteholder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Note Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Noteholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Noteholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee. If the Issuer mails a notice or communication to the Noteholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Note Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar. Section 12.03 Communication by Holders with Other Holders. Noteholders may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the TIA with other Noteholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Issuer, the Trustee, the Note Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the TIA. Section 12.04 Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Issuer to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee: (1) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and 44
(2) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with. Section 12.05 Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include: (1) a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with. Section 12.06 Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 12.07 Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Note Registrar. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Noteholders. The Note Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions. Section 12.08 Legal Holidays. A "Legal Holiday" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Notes, no interest, if any, shall accrue for the intervening period. Section 12.09 GOVERNING LAW. THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES WILL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Section 12.10 No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Issuer shall not have any liability for any obligations of such Issuer under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Noteholder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes. Section 12.11 Successors. All agreements of the Issuer in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor. Section 12.12 Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any authenticating agent, any Note Registrar and their successors hereunder and the holders of Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. Section 12.13 Table of Contents, Heading, Etc. The table of contents and the titles and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. 45
Section 12.14 Authenticating Agent. The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent (the "Authenticating Agent") that shall be authorized to act on its behalf, and subject to its direction, in the authentication and delivery of Notes in connection with the original issuance thereof and transfers and exchanges of Notes hereunder, including under Sections 2.03, 2.07, 2.08, 3.01, 3.04, 9.05 and 10.02, as fully to all intents and purposes as though the authenticating agent had been expressly authorized by this Indenture and those Sections to authenticate and deliver Notes. For all purposes of this Indenture, the authentication and delivery of Notes by the Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be authentication and delivery of such Notes "by the Trustee" and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to satisfy any requirement hereunder or in the Notes for the Trustee's certificate of authentication. Such Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a Person eligible to serve as trustee hereunder pursuant to Section 7.09. Any corporation into which any Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or conversion to which any Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of any Authenticating Agent, shall be the successor of the Authenticating Agent hereunder, if such successor corporation is otherwise eligible under this Section 12.14, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the parties hereto or the Authenticating Agent or such successor corporation. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Issuer. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Issuer. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible under this Section, the Trustee shall either promptly appoint a successor Authenticating Agent or itself assume the duties and obligations of the former Authenticating Agent under this Indenture and, upon such appointment of a successor Authenticating Agent, if made, shall give written notice of such appointment of a successor Authenticating Agent to the Issuer and shall mail notice of such appointment of a successor Authenticating Agent to all holders of Notes as the names and addresses of such holders appear on the Note Register. The Issuer agree to pay to the Authenticating Agent from time to time such reasonable compensation for its services as shall be agreed upon in writing between the Issuer and the Authenticating Agent. The provisions of Sections 2.12, 7.03, 7.04, 7.07 and this Section 12.14 shall be applicable to any Authenticating Agent. Section 12.15 Execution in Counterparts. This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 46
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written. XCEL ENERGY INC. By: ---------------------------- Benjamin G.S. Fowke III Vice President and Treasurer ATTEST: - --------------------------------------- Cathy J. Hart Corporate Secretary WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ----------------------------
EXHIBIT A [FORM OF GLOBAL NOTE] FOR GLOBAL NOTE ONLY: [UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR THEIR AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.] THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES THEREOF UNDER RULE 144(K) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSIVE PROVISION) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD"), ONLY (A) TO XCEL ENERGY INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) OUTSIDE THE UNTIED STATES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, (D) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THE SECURITY FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR," FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING UNDER RULE 144, IF AVAILABLE. IF ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY OR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY IS PROPOSED TO BE MADE PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) OF THIS PARAGRAPH PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD (OR THE DATE OF REGISTRATION THEREOF), THE TRANSFEROR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO DELIVER A LETTER FROM THE TRANSFEREE TO THE TRUSTEE WHICH SHALL PROVIDE, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT THE TRANSFEREE IS AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (A)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OF THIS
SECURITY FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES TO ANY REQUIREMENT OF LAW THAT THE DISPOSITION OF ITS PROPERTY OR THE PROPERTY OF SUCH INVESTOR ACCOUNT OR ACCOUNTS BE AT ALL TIMES WITHIN ITS OR THEIR CONTROL. EACH PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD, THE ISSUER AND THE TRUSTEE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER EXPIRATION OF THE RESALE RESTRICTION PERIOD. 2
XCEL ENERGY INC. 7 1/2 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 U.S. $[ ] No. CUSIP: [ ] Issue Date: XCEL ENERGY INC., a Minnesota corporation, promises to pay to CEDE & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [ ] DOLLARS ($[ ]), subject to increases and decreases as set forth on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases annexed hereto, on November 21, 2007 (the "Maturity Date"). This Note shall bear interest as specified on the other side of this Note. This Note is convertible as specified on the other side of this Note. Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note. Dated: XCEL ENERGY INC. By: ------------------------------- Name: Title: 3
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture (as defined on the other side of this Note). WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ------------------------------ Authorized Signatory By: ------------------------------ As Authenticating Agent (if different from Trustee) Dated: 4
[FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF NOTE] 7 1/2 % Convertible Senior Note due 2007 1. Cash Interest. The Issuer promises to pay interest in cash on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum of 7 1/2 %. The Issuer will pay cash interest semiannually in arrears on May 21 and November 21 of each year, beginning on May 21, 2003 (each an "Interest Payment Date") to Holders of record at the close of business on May 6 and November 6 (whether or not a Business Day) (each a "Regular Record Date"), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date; provided that interest payable on the Maturity Date or if applicable, upon repurchase or acceleration, shall be payable to the person to whom principal shall be payable. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from (and including) the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided or, if no interest has been paid, from (and including) the Issue Date to (but not including) the next successive Interest Payment Date. Cash interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Issuer shall pay cash interest on overdue principal at the rate borne by the Notes, and it shall pay interest in cash on overdue installments of cash interest (including Liquidated Damages and Additional Interest Amounts, if any) at the same rate to the extent lawful. All such overdue cash interest shall be payable on demand. The Issuer further promise to pay Liquidated Damages that it may from time to time be required to pay pursuant to Section 2(e) of the Registration Rights Agreement at the same time and in the same manner as payments of interest as specified herein. 2. Payment of Principal. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Issuer will make payments in respect of the principal on this Note on the Maturity Date or if applicable, upon repurchase or acceleration to Holders who surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes. 3. Payment of Additional Interest Amounts. In the event that the Issuer declares a dividend on its shares of Common Stock that exceeds the Current Quarterly Dividend, the Issuer shall pay to each Holder of record as of the record date for such dividend an amount equal to the product of (i) the positive difference between (A) such quarterly per share dividend declared by the Issuer and (B) the Current Quarterly Dividend multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock such Holder would possess had such Holder converted its Notes into shares of Common Stock as of the record date for such dividend (each such payment an "Additional Interest Amount" and, collectively, the "Additional Interest Amounts"); provided, however, that such Additional Interest Amounts shall not be due and no payment with respect thereto shall be made unless such dividend is paid to holders of Common Stock. The payment date for an Additional Interest Amount shall be the same as the payment date for the dividend to which the Additional Interest Amount relates. Holders of Notes shall not be entitled to receive any Additional Interest Amount with respect to any dividend that causes an adjustment to the Conversion Rate. The "Current Quarterly Dividend" shall be initially equal to $0.1875 per share of Common Stock, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. 4. Method of Payment. The Issuer will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Issuer may make such cash payments by check payable in such money. A Holder of Notes with an aggregate principal amount in excess of $5,000,000 will be paid by wire transfer in immediately available funds at the election of such holder. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day will be made on the next succeeding Business Day. 5. Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Note Registrar. Initially, Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, the "Trustee" will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Note Registrar. The Issuer may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Note Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Issuer or any of their Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Note Registrar or co- registrar. 6. Indenture. The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of November 21, 2002 (the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the 5
"TIA"). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Noteholders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Issuer limited to $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount, or $230,000,000 aggregate principal amount if the Overallotment Option is exercised fully (except as provided for in Section 2.01 of the Indenture). The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Issuer, secured or unsecured. No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. 7. Repurchase by the Issuer at the Option of the Holder. If a Change of Control of the Issuer occurs, the Holder, at the Holder's option, shall have the right, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, to require the Issuer to repurchase the Notes (or any portion of the principal amount hereof that is at least $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, provided that the portion of the principal amount of this Note to be outstanding after such repurchase is at least equal to $1,000) at the Change of Control Repurchase Price in cash. A notice of a Change of Control will be given by the Issuer to the Holders as provided in the Indenture. To exercise a repurchase right, a Holder must deliver to the Trustee a written notice as provided in the Indenture. Holders have the right to withdraw any Change of Control Repurchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. 8. Conversion. Subject to the next two succeeding sentences, a Holder of a Note may convert it into, at the option of the Holder, Common Stock of the Issuer at any time before the close of business on the Maturity Date. A Note in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Change of Control Repurchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Issuer to purchase such Note may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The initial Conversion Rate shall be 81.1359 shares of Common Stock per $1000 principal amount of the Note, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Issuer shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock. To convert a Note, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice below (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Note to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Conversion Agent, the Issuer or the Trustee and (4) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required, in accordance with all the provisions of the Indenture. 9. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange. The Notes are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Note Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Note Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes in respect of which a Change of Control Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Note to be purchased in part, the portion of the Note not to be purchased). 10. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes. 11. Unclaimed Money or Notes. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Issuer upon written request any money held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Issuer, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Issuer for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person. 6
12. Amendment; Waiver. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults or Events of Default may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Noteholder, the Issuer and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes, among other things, to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to comply with Article 5 of the Indenture, or to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Noteholder, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA or in connection with the registration of the Notes under the Securities Act. 13. Defaults and Remedies. Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (1) the Issuer fails to pay when due the principal on any of the Notes at maturity or exercise of a repurchase right or otherwise; (2) the Issuer fails to pay an installment of interest (including Liquidated Damages and Additional Interest Amounts, if any) on any of the Notes that continues for 30 days after the date when due; (3) the Issuer fails to deliver shares of Common Stock, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, when such Common Stock or cash in lieu of fractional shares is required to be delivered upon conversion of a Note and such failure continues for 10 days after such delivery date; (4) the Issuer fails to give notice regarding a Change of Control within the time period specified in the Indenture; (5) the Issuer fails to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in the Notes or the Indenture for a period of 60 days after receipt by the Issuer of a written notice of such failure, requiring the Issuer to remedy the same, given by the Trustee or to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; (6) (A) the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary fails to make any payment by the end of the applicable grace period, if any, after the final scheduled payment date for such payment with respect to any indebtedness for borrowed money in an aggregate principal amount in excess of $50 million or (B) indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount in excess of $50 million shall have been accelerated or otherwise declared due and payable, or required to be prepaid or repurchased (other than by regularly scheduled required prepayment) prior to the scheduled maturity thereof as a result of a default with respect to such indebtedness, in either case without such indebtedness referred to in subclause (A) or (B) hereof having been discharged, cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Issuer of a Notice of Default; (7) the Issuer fails to pay, when due, the principal of or any amounts due upon acceleration of, any of the notes issued pursuant to the Citadel Securities Purchase Agreement (including the "First Notes" (as such term is defined in the Citadel Securities Purchase Agreement)); and (8) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary. If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (8) above) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Notes becoming due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default. Noteholders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Noteholders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clause (1) or (2) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests. 14. Trustee Dealings with the Issuer. Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Issuer or their Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or their Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 15. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Issuer shall not have any liability for any obligations of such Issuer under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Noteholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes. 16. Authentication. This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note. 7
17. Abbreviations. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Noteholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act). 18. GOVERNING LAW. THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE WILL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. -------------------------- The Issuer will furnish to any Noteholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to: 8
CONVERSION NOTICE TO: XCEL ENERGY INC. WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby irrevocably exercises the option to convert this Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, into shares of Common Stock of Xcel Energy Inc. in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, and directs that the shares issuable and deliverable upon such conversion, together with any check in payment for fractional shares and any Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If shares or any portion of this Note not converted are to be issued in the name of a person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will provide the appropriate information below and pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Note. Dated: --------------------- ------------------------------ Signature(s) Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Note Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Note Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. ------------------------------ Signature Guarantee 9
Fill in the registration of shares of Common Stock if to be issued, and Notes if to be delivered, other than to and in the name of the registered holder: - --------------------------------- (Name) - --------------------------------- (Street Address) - --------------------------------- (City, State and Zip Code) - --------------------------------- Please print name and address Principal amount to be converted (if less than all): $ ------------------------------- Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number: - --------------------------------- 10
CHANGE OF CONTROL REPURCHASE NOTICE TO: XCEL ENERGY INC. WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby irrevocably acknowledges receipt of a notice from Xcel Energy Inc. (the "Issuer") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control with respect to the Issuer and requests and instructs the Issuer to repay the entire principal amount of this Note (Certificate No.____), or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note to the registered holder hereof. Dated: ------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------------------ Signature(s) NOTICE: The above signatures of the holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. Principal amount to be repaid (if less than all): $ ----------------------------- ------------------------------ Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number 11
ASSIGNMENT For value received __________________________________________ hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto________________________________________ (Please insert social security or other Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints ____________________________________ attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises. In connection with any transfer of the Note prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision) (other than any transfer pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act), the undersigned confirms that such Note is being transferred: | | To Xcel Energy Inc. or a subsidiary thereof; or | | Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or | | To an Institutional Accredited Investor pursuant to and in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or | | Pursuant to an offshore transaction, in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act; or | | Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that such Note is not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Issuer as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (an "Affiliate"). | | The transferee is an Affiliate of the Issuer. Dated: ---------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ Signature(s) Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Note Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Note Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. ------------------------------------ Signature Guarantee 12
NOTICE: The signature of the conversion notice, the Change of Control Repurchase Notice or the assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. 13
EXHIBIT B-1 Transfer Certificate In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to the sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") (or any successor provision), the undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby certifies with respect to $____________ principal amount of the above-captioned Notes presented or surrendered on the date hereof (the "Surrendered Notes") for registration of transfer, or for exchange or conversion where the Notes issuable upon such exchange or conversion are to be registered in a name other than that of the undersigned registered owner (each such transaction being a "transfer"), that such transfer complies with the restrictive legend set forth on the face of the Surrendered Notes for the reason checked below: | | A transfer of the Surrendered Notes is made to the Issuer or any subsidiaries; or | | The transfer of the Surrendered Notes complies with Rule 144A under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"); or | | The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is to an institutional accredited investor, as described in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act; or | | The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or | | The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is pursuant to an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act; or | | The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is pursuant to another available exemption from the registration requirement of the Securities Act. and unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that, to the undersigned's knowledge, such Notes are not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Issuer as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (an "Affiliate"). | | The transferee is an affiliate of the Issuer. DATE: ------------------- ------------------------------------ Signature(s) (If the registered owner is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the Person signing on behalf of such registered owner must be stated.) B-1-1
EXHIBIT B-2 FORM OF LETTER TO BE DELIVERED BY ACCREDITED INVESTORS Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association Ladies and Gentlemen: We are delivering this letter in connection with our proposed purchase of $____ principal amount of 7 1/2 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 (the "Notes") and ___ shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes (the "Securities") of Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"). We hereby confirm that: 2. we are an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501(a)(1), (2) or (3) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or an entity in which all of the equity owners are accredited investors within the meaning of Rule 501(a)(1), (2) or (3) under the Securities Act (an "Institutional Accredited Investor"); 3. (A) our purchase of the Securities will be for our own account or for the account of one or more other Institutional Accredited Investors or as fiduciary for the account of one or more trusts, each of which is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501(a)(7) under the Securities Act and for each of which we exercise sole investment discretion or (B) we are a "bank," within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act, or a "savings and loan association" or other institution described in Section 3(a)(5)(A) of the Securities Act that is acquiring the Securities as fiduciary for the account of one or more institutions for which we exercise sole investment discretion; 4. in the event that we purchase any of the Securities, we will acquire Securities having a minimum purchase price of not less that $500,000 for our own account or for any separate account for which we are acting; 5. we have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that we are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of purchasing the Securities; 6. we are not acquiring the Securities with a view to distribution therefor or with any present intention of offering or selling any of the Securities, except inside the United States in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act or outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act, as provided below; provided that the disposition of our property and the property of any accounts for which we are acting as fiduciary shall remain at all times within our control; and We understand that the Securities are being offered in a transaction not involving any public offering within the United States within the meaning of the Securities Act and that the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, and we agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of each account for which we acquire any Securities, that if in the future we decide to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer such Securities such Securities, may be offered, resold, pledged or otherwise transferred only (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, (ii) inside the United States to a person who we reasonably believe is a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (iii) pursuant to an exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, if available, or (iv) outside the United States in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, and in each case, in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any State of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction. We acknowledge that the Issuer and the Trustee for the Securities will not be required to accept for registration of transfer any Securities acquired by us, except upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee that the foregoing restrictions on transfer have been B-2-1
complied with. We further understand that any Securities acquired by us will be in the form of definitive physical certificates and that such certificates will bear a legend reflecting the substance of this paragraph. We acknowledge that you, the Issuer, and others will rely upon our confirmations, acknowledgements, and agreements set forth herein, and we agree to notify you promptly in writing if any of our representations or warranties herein ceases to be accurate and complete. THIS LETTER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. Date: --------- (Name of Purchaser) By: -------------------------------------------- Name: -------------------------------------------- Title: -------------------------------------------- Address: B-2-2
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL SECURITY The initial principal amount of this Global Security is [ ] DOLLARS ($[ ]). The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made: B-2-3

EXHIBIT 99.02 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT BY AND AMONG XCEL ENERGY INC. AS ISSUER AND MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED AND LAZARD FRERES & CO. L.L.C. AS INITIAL PURCHASERS DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 21, 2002
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of November 21, 2002, by and between Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company") and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Lazard Freres & Co. L.L.C. (the "Initial Purchasers"), pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement, dated November 19, 2002 (the "Purchase Agreement") between the Company and the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement. The Company agrees with the Initial Purchasers (i) for their benefit as Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the beneficial owners (including the Initial Purchasers) from time to time of the Registrable Securities (as defined herein) (each of the foregoing a "Holder" and together the "Holders"), as follows: Section 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "Affiliate" means with respect to any specified person, an "affiliate," as defined in Rule 144, of such person. "Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof. "Applicable Conversion Price" as of any date of determination means the Conversion Price in effect as of such date of determination or, if no Notes are then outstanding, the Conversion Price that would be in effect were Notes then outstanding. "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. "Common Stock" means the shares of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, of the Company and any other shares of common stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Indenture, including the Underlying Common Stock. "Conversion Price" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Indenture. "Damages Accrual Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof. "Damages Payment Date" means, in the case of the Notes and the Underlying Common Stock, May 21 and November 21 of each year. "Deferral Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(i) hereof. "Deferral Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(i) hereof. "Effectiveness Deadline Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof. 2
"Effectiveness Period" means the period commencing on the last date of original issuance of the Notes and terminating upon the earliest of the following: (A) when all the Notes covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or when all shares of Underlying Common Stock have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and (B) when all outstanding Registrable Securities held by persons that are not Affiliates of the Company may be resold without registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereto. "Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof. "Event Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. "Filing Deadline Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof. "Holder" has the meaning set forth in the third paragraph of this Agreement. "Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2002, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued. "Initial Purchasers" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Lazard Freres & Co. L.L.C. "Initial Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof. "Issue Date" means the first date of original issuance of the Notes. "Liquidated Damages Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof. "Material Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(i) hereof. "Notes" means the 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 of the Company to be purchased pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. "Notice and Questionnaire" means a written notice delivered to the Company containing substantially the information called for by the Selling Securityholder Notice and Questionnaire attached as Annex A to the Offering Memorandum of the Company dated November 19, 2002 relating to the Notes. "Notice Holder" means, on any date, any Holder that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date, so long as all of their Registrable Securities that have been registered for resale pursuant to a Notice and Questionnaire have not been sold in accordance with a Registration Statement. "Purchase Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof. "Prospectus" means the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a 3
prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or prospectus supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference or explicitly deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus. "Record Holder" means (i) with respect to any Damages Payment Date relating to any Notes as to which any such Liquidated Damages Amount has accrued, the holder of record of such Note on the record date with respect to the interest payment date under the Indenture on which such Damages Payment Date shall occur and (ii) with respect to any Damages Payment Date relating to the Underlying Common Stock as to which any such Liquidated Damages Amount has accrued, the registered holder of such Underlying Common Stock fifteen (15) days prior to such Damages Payment Date. "Registrable Securities" means the Notes until such Notes have been converted into or exchanged for the Underlying Common Stock and, at all times the Underlying Common Stock and any securities into or for which such Underlying Common Stock has been converted or exchanged, and any security issued with respect thereto upon any stock dividend, split or similar event until, in the case of any such security, (A) the earliest of (i) its effective registration under the Securities Act and resale in accordance with the Registration Statement covering it, (ii) such security may be resold without registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereto, or (iii) its sale to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the Securities Act, and (B) as a result of the event or circumstance described in any of the foregoing clauses (A)(i) through (iii), the legend with respect to transfer restrictions required under the Indenture are removed or removable in accordance with the terms of the Indenture or such legend, as the case may be. "Registration Expenses" has the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof. "Registration Statement" means any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits, and all materials incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement. "Restricted Securities" has the meaning given such term in Rule 144. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder. "Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof. 4
"Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. "Trustee" means Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture. "Underlying Common Stock" means the Common Stock into which the Notes are convertible or issued upon any such conversion. Section 2. Shelf Registration. (a) The Company shall prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed with the SEC, as soon as practicable but in any event by the date (the "Filing Deadline Date") that is ninety (90) days after the Issue Date, a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act (a "Shelf Registration Statement") registering the resale from time to time by Holders thereof of all of the Registrable Securities (the "Initial Shelf Registration Statement"). The Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Securities for resale by such Holders in accordance with the reasonable methods of distribution elected by the Holders, and set forth in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement. The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Initial Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable but in any event by the date (the "Effectiveness Deadline Date") that is one hundred eighty (180) days after the Issue Date, and to keep the Initial Shelf Registration Statement (or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement) continuously effective under the Securities Act until the expiration of the Effectiveness Period. At the time the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, each Holder that became a Notice Holder on or prior to the date that is ten (10) Business Days prior to such time of effectiveness shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law to the extent that such Holder has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company as contemplated by Section 2(d) below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Holder fails to provide the Company with the information requested by the Notice and Questionnaire within the period specified in Section 2(d) below, then the Filing Deadline Date and the Effectiveness Deadline Date, with respect to such Holder, shall be extended by one day for each day after the twenty (20) Business Day period that such Holder fails to provide such Notice and Questionnaire; provided, however, that the failure of a Holder to provide such Notice and Questionnaire shall not otherwise affect the Company's obligations under this Agreement to any other Holder. (b) If the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within five (5) Business Days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Shelf Registration Statement in a manner reasonably expected to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional Shelf Registration Statement covering all of the securities that as of the date of such filing are Registrable Securities (a "Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement"). If a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to become effective as promptly as is practicable after such filing and to keep such Registration Statement (or subsequent Shelf Registration Statement) continuously effective until the end of the Effectiveness Period. 5
(c) The Company shall supplement and amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement, if required by the Securities Act or as reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or by the Trustee on behalf of the Holders of the Registrable Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement. (d) Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus, it will do so only in accordance with this Section 2(d) and Section 3(i). Each Holder of Registrable Securities wising to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus agrees to deliver a Notice and Questionnaire, but shall have at least twenty (20) Business Days from the date on which the Notice and Questionnaire is first received by such Holders to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company. From and after the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered, whether before of after the (20) Business Day Period described above, and in any event within the later of (x) five (5) Business Days after such date or (y) five (5) Business Days after the expiration of any Deferral Period in effect when the Notice and Questionnaire is delivered or put into effect within five (5) Business Days of such delivery date, (i) if required by applicable law, file with the SEC a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or, if required by applicable law, prepare and file a supplement to the related Prospectus or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable, but in any event by the date (the "Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date") that is thirty (30) days after the date such post-effective amendment is required by this clause to be filed; (ii) provide such Holder copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i); and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Securities Act of any post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i); provided that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Deferral Period, or a Deferral Period is put into effect within five (5) Business Days after such delivery date, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above within five (5) Business Days after expiration of the Deferral Period in accordance with Section 3(i); provided further that if under applicable law, the Company has more than one option as to the type or manner of making any such filing, the Company will make the required filing or filings in the manner or of a type that is reasonably expected to result in the earliest availability of the Prospectus for effecting resales of Registrable Securities. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Registration Statement or related Prospectus; provided, however, that any Holder that becomes a Notice Holder pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(d) (whether or not such Holder was a Notice Holder at the time the Registration Statement was declared effective) shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Registration Statement or related Prospectus in accordance with the requirements of this Section 2(d). (e) The parties hereto agree that the Holders of Registrable Securities will suffer damages, and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with 6
precision, if (i) the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has not been filed on or prior to the Filing Deadline Date, (ii) the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective under the Securities Act on or prior to the Effectiveness Deadline Date, (iii) the Company has failed to perform its obligations set forth in Section 2(b) within the time period required therein, (iv) the Company has failed to perform its obligations set forth in Section 2(d) within the time periods required therein or (v) the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period pursuant to Section 3(i) hereof (each of the events of a type described in any of the foregoing clauses (i) through (v) are individually referred to herein as an "Event," and the Filing Deadline Date in the case of clause (i), the Effectiveness Deadline Date in the case of clause (ii), the date by which the Company is required to perform its obligations set forth in Section 2(b) in the case of clause (iii), the date by which the Company is required to perform its obligations set forth in Section 2(d) in the case of clause (iv) (including the filing of any post-effective amendment prior to the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date), and the date on which the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted by Section 3(i) hereof in the case of clause (v), being referred to herein as an "Event Date"). Events shall be deemed to continue until the following dates with respect to the respective types of Events: the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is filed in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (i), the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective under the Securities Act in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (ii), the date the Company performs its obligations set forth in Section 2(b) in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (iii), the date the Company performs its obligations set forth in Section 2(d) in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (iv) (including, without limitation, the date the relevant post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective under the Securities Act), and termination of the Deferral Period that caused the limit on the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in a period set forth in Section 3(i) to be exceeded in the case of the commencement of an Event of the type described in clause (v). Accordingly, commencing on (and including) any Event Date and ending on (but excluding) the next date on which there are no Events that have occurred and are continuing (a "Damages Accrual Period"), the Company agrees to pay, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount (the "Liquidated Damages Amount"), payable on the Damages Payment Dates to Record Holders of Notes that are Registrable Securities and of shares of Underlying Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes that are Registrable Securities, as the case may be, accruing, for each portion of such Damages Accrual Period beginning on and including a Damages Payment Date (or, if the first date of any Damages Accrual Period for which the Liquidated Damages Amount is to be paid to Holders as a result of the occurrence of any particular Event is other than a Damages Payment Date, then the Event Date) and ending on but excluding the first to occur of (A) the date of the end of the Damages Accrual Period or (B) the next Damages Payment Date, at a rate per annum equal to one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) for the first 90-day period from the Event Date, and thereafter at a rate per annum equal to one-half of one percent (0.5%) of (i) the aggregate principal amount of such Notes or, without duplication, (ii) in the case of Notes that have been converted into or exchanged for Underlying Common Stock, the Applicable Conversion Price of such shares of Underlying Common Stock on the date of conversion, as the case may be, in each case determined as of the Business Day immediately preceding the next Damages Payment Date; provided that any Liquidated Damages Amount accrued with respect to any Note or portion thereof called for redemption on a redemption date or converted into Underlying Common Stock on a conversion date prior to the Damages Payment Date, shall, in any such event, be paid instead to the Holder who submitted such Note or portion thereof for redemption or conversion on the applicable redemption date or conversion date, as the case may be, on such date (or promptly following the conversion date, in the case of conversion). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Liquidated Damages Amounts shall accrue as to any 7
Registrable Security from and after the earlier of (x) the date such security is no longer a Registrable Security and (y) expiration of the Effectiveness Period. The rate of accrual of the Liquidated Damages Amount with respect to any period shall not exceed 0.5% notwithstanding the occurrence of multiple concurrent Events. Following the cure of all Events requiring the payment by the Company of Liquidated Damages Amounts to the Holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Section, the accrual of Liquidated Damages Amounts will cease (without in any way limiting the effect of any subsequent Event requiring the payment of Liquidated Damages Amount by the Company). The Trustee shall be entitled, on behalf of Holders of Notes, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement, including for the payment of any Liquidated Damages Amount. Nothing shall preclude a Holder of registrable Securities from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or other equitable relief with respect to this Agreement. All of the Company's obligations set forth in this Section 2(e) that are outstanding with respect to any Registrable Security at the time such security ceases to be a Registrable Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security have been satisfied in full (notwithstanding termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 8(k)). The parties hereto agree that the liquidated damages provided for in this Section 2(e) constitute a reasonable estimate of the damages that may be incurred by Holders of Registrable Securities by reason of the failure of the Shelf Registration Statement to be filed or declared effective or available for effecting resales of Registrable Securities in accordance with the provisions hereof. Section 3. Registration Procedures. In connection with the registration obligations of the Company under Section 2 hereof, the Company shall: (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement or Registration Statements on any appropriate form under the Securities Act available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and use its best efforts to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; provided that before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the SEC, the Company shall furnish to the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its best efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such counsel reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to the Initial Purchasers and such counsel. (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective until the expiration of the Effectiveness Period; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act; and use its best efforts to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the Effectiveness Period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement as so amended or such Prospectus as so supplemented. 8
(c) As promptly as practicable give notice to the Notice Holders, the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) (i) when any Prospectus, Prospectus supplement, Registration Statement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement has been filed with the SEC and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has been declared effective, (ii) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement under the Securities Act, by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to any Registration Statement or related Prospectus or for additional information, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (v) of the determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement will be filed with the SEC, which notice may, at the discretion of the Company (or as required pursuant to Section 3(i)), state that it constitutes a Deferral Notice, in which event the provisions of Section 3(i) shall apply. (d) Use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of, and, if issued, to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction in which they have been qualified for sale, in either case as promptly as practicable, and provide prompt notice to each Notice Holder and the Initial Purchasers of the withdrawal of any such order. (e) If reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or any Notice Holder, as promptly as practicable incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement such information as the Initial Purchasers, such Notice Holder or counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) shall, on the basis of a written opinion of nationally-recognized counsel experienced in such matters, determine to be required to be included therein by applicable law and make any required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment provided that the Company shall not be required to take any actions under this Section 3(e) that, in the written opinion of counsel for the Company, are not in compliance with appliance law. (f) As promptly as practicable furnish to each Notice Holder, counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and the Initial Purchasers, without charge, at least one (1) conformed copy of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, including financial statements but excluding schedules, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits (unless requested in writing to the Company by such Notice Holder, such counsel or the Initial Purchasers). (g) During the Effectiveness Period, deliver to each Notice Holder, counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and the Initial Purchasers, in connection with any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses relating to such Registrable Securities (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Notice Holder may reasonably request; and the Company hereby consents (except during such periods that a Deferral Notice is outstanding and 9
has not been revoked) to the use of such Prospectus or each amendment or supplement thereto by each Notice Holder, in connection with any offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein. (h) Prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Notice Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Notice Holder reasonably requests in writing (which request may be included in the Notice and Questionnaire); prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effectiveness Period in connection with such Notice Holder's offer and sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities in the manner set forth in the relevant Registration Statement and the related Prospectus; provided that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where they would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Agreement or (ii) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in suits or to taxation in any such jurisdiction where they are not then so subject. (i) Upon (A) the issuance by the SEC of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of proceedings with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, (B) the occurrence of any event or the existence of any fact as a result of which any Registration Statement shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact required to be stated therein or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or any Prospectus shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (C) the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development (a "Material Event") that, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, (i) in the case of clause (B) above, subject to the next sentence, as promptly as practicable prepare and file a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference, if applicable or file any other required document that would be incorporated by reference into such Registration Statement and Prospectus so that such Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact required to be stated therein or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that the Company may rely on information provided by each Notice Holder with respect to such Notice Holder), as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities being sold thereunder, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement, subject to the next sentence, use its best efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is practicable, and (ii) give notice to the Notice Holders and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended (a "Deferral Notice") and, upon 10
receipt of any Deferral Notice, each Notice Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement until such Notice Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in clause (i) above, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus. The Company will use its best efforts to ensure that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed (x) in the case of clause (A) above, as promptly as is practicable, (y) in the case of clause (B) above, as soon as, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, the Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and the Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (z) in the case of clause (C) above, as soon as, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, such suspension is no longer appropriate. The period during which the availability of the Registration Statement and any Prospectus is suspended (the "Deferral Period") without the Company incurring any obligation to pay liquidated damages pursuant to Section 2(e), shall not exceed thirty (30) days in any ninety- (90-) day period and ninety (90) days in any twelve- (12-) month period. (j) Make available for inspection during normal business hours by a representative for the Notice Holders of such Registrable Securities, and any broker-dealers, attorneys and accountants retained by such Notice Holders, all reasonably requested financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and cause the appropriate executive officers, directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to make available for inspection during normal business hours all relevant information reasonably requested by such representative for the Notice Holders, or any such broker-dealers, attorneys or accountants in connection with such disposition, in each case as is customary for similar "due diligence" examinations; provided, however, that such persons shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably and in good faith designated by the Company in writing as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising rights under this Agreement, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of any Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person or (iv) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement or is not otherwise under a fiduciary or other duty of trust to the Company, and provided that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall, to the fullest extent possible, be coordinated on behalf of all the Notice Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by the counsel referred to in Section 5. (k) Comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to its securityholders earning statements (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company commencing after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods. 11
(l) Cooperate with each Notice Holder to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold pursuant to a Registration Statement, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends, and cause such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations as are permitted by the Indenture and registered in such names as such Notice Holder may request in writing at least (2) Business Days prior to any sale of such Registrable Securities. (m) Provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities covered by each Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee and the transfer agent for the Common Stock with printed certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company. (n) Prior to any public offering of Underlying Common Stock which are Registrable Securities, use its best efforts to cause all such Underlying Common Stock to be listed, or approved for listing, on the New York Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange on which securities of the same class issued by the Company are then listed. (o) Cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (p) Upon (i) the filing of the Initial Registration Statement and (ii) the effectiveness of the Initial Registration Statement, announce the same, in each case by press release to a nationally recognized wire service. (q) Enter into such customary agreements and take all such other necessary actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate disposition of such Registrable Securities. (r) Cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and execute, and use its best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner. Section 4. Holder's Obligations. Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto, unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Notice and Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(d) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Notice and Questionnaire) and the information set forth in the next sentence. Each Notice Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder not misleading and any other information regarding such Notice Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be to disclosed in the Registration Statement under applicable law. Section 5. Registration Expenses. The Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance by the Company of its obligations under 12
Sections 2 and 3 of this Agreement whether or not any of the Registration Statements are declared effective. Such fees and expenses ("Registration Expenses") shall include, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, fees and expenses (x) with respect to filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and (y) of compliance with federal and state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders, not to exceed $10,000 in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Notice Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement may designate), (ii) printing expenses (including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company), (iii) duplication expenses relating to copies of any Registration Statement or Prospectus delivered to any Holders hereunder, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (v) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Initial Purchasers, including the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders in connection therewith, (vi) fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel and of the registrar and transfer agent for the Common Stock and (vii) Securities Act liability insurance obtained by the Company in its sole discretion. In addition, the Company shall pay the internal expenses of the Company (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit, the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing by the Company of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange on which similar securities of the Company are then listed and the fees and expenses of any person, including special experts, retained by the Company. Section 6. Indemnification; Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Initial Purchasers, each Holder and each person, if any, who controls each such Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows: (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) 13
below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above; provided, however, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Initial Purchasers or such Holder expressly for use in a Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto); provided, however, that this indemnity does not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of (i) an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to a Holder furnished in writing to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in a Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) and (ii) the failure of any Holder to comply with Section 3(i). (b) In connection with any shelf registration statement in which a Holder of Registrable securities is participating, in furnishing information relating to such Holder to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchasers, the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the any Company, the Initial Purchasers or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 6(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto); provided, however, that no such Holder shall be liable for any claims hereunder in excess of the amount of net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement. (c) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Initial 14
Purchasers, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. (d) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 6 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Holders or the Initial Purchaser and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company, the Holders and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6(e) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 6(e). The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 6(e) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or 15
any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6, neither any of the Initial Purchasers nor any Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Registrable Securities sold by such Holder or underwritten by such Initial Purchaser, as the case may be, and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder or Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 6, each person, if any, who controls any of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchasers or Holder, and each director of the Company, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. Section 7. Information Requirements. (a) The Company covenants that, if at any time before the end of the Effectiveness Period the Company is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, it will cooperate with any Holder of Registrable Securities and take such further reasonable action as any Holder of Registrable Securities may reasonably request in writing (including, without limitation, making such reasonable representations as any such Holder may reasonably request), all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rule 144 and Rule 144A under the Securities Act and customarily taken in connection with sales pursuant to such exemptions. Upon the written request of any Holder of Registrable Securities, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such filing requirements, unless such a statement has been included in the Company's most recent report filed pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of Exchange Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities (other than the Common Stock) under any section of the Exchange Act. (b) The Company shall file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act and shall comply with all other requirements set forth in the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 8. Miscellaneous. (a) No Conflicting Agreements. The Company is not, as of the date hereof, a party to, nor shall it, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement. The Company represents and warrants that the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities hereunder do not in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of such Company's securities under any other agreements. Notwithstanding the 16
foregoing, the Initial Purchasers acknowledges that the Company is obligated, and may obligate itself from time to time in the future, to register its securities for other holders. (b) Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the then outstanding Underlying Common Stock constituting Registrable Securities (with Holders of Notes deemed to be the Holders, for purposes of this Section, of the number of outstanding shares of Underlying Common Stock into which such Notes are or would be convertible or exchangeable as of the date on which such consent is requested). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Securities whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders of Registrable Securities may be given by Holders of at least a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Registration Statement; provided that the provisions of this sentence may not be amended, modified, or supplemented except in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent or thereafter shall be bound by any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this Section 8(b), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder. (c) Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, by telecopier, by courier guaranteeing overnight delivery or by first-class mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed given (i) when made, if made by hand delivery, (ii) upon confirmation, if made by telecopier, (iii) one (1) Business Day after being deposited with such courier, if made by overnight courier or (iv) on the date indicated on the notice of receipt, if made by first- class mail, to the parties as follows: (x) if to a Holder of Registrable Securities, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company in a Notice and Questionnaire or any amendment thereto; (y) if to the Company, to: Xcel Energy Inc. 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, MN 55401 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No.: (612) 215-4501 (z) if to the Initial Purchasers, to: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated Four World Financial Center New York, New York 10080 Attention: Investment Banking Group 17
or to such other address as such person may have furnished to the other persons identified in this Section 8(c) in writing in accordance herewith. (d) Approval of Holders. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) (other than the Initial Purchasers or subsequent Holders of Registrable Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Registrable Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage. (e) Successors and Assigns. Any person who purchases any Registrable Securities from the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, to be an assignee of the Initial Purchasers. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties and shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each Holder of any Registrable Securities. (f) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. (g) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. (h) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF THAT WOULD REQUIRE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. (i) Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated thereby, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. (j) Entire Agreement. This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and is intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. Except as provided in the Purchase Agreement, there are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein, with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings among the parties with respect to such registration rights. No party hereto shall have any rights, duties or obligations other than those specifically set forth in this Agreement. In no event will such methods of distribution take the form of an underwritten offering of the Registrable Securities without the prior agreement of the Company. (k) Termination. This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate upon the end of the Effectiveness Period, except for any liabilities or obligations under Section 4, 5 or 6 hereof and the obligations to make payments of and provide for liquidated damages under Section 2(e) hereof to the extent such damages accrue prior to the end of the Effectiveness Period, each of which shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms. 18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above. XCEL ENERGY INC. By:____________________________ Benjamin G.S. Fowke III Vice President and Treasurer Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written: MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED By:______________________________________ Robert Craig Managing Director For itself and as Representative of the other Initial Purchaser named in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement. 19

 
Exhibit 99.03
 
November 21, 2002
     MINNEAPOLIS Xcel Energy Inc. (NYSE: XEL), announced today that it closed on the sale of $230 million of convertible senior notes, which includes the issuance of $30 million associated with 15 percent over-allotment option granted to the initial purchasers. The senior notes have a coupon of 7.5 percent, mature in 2007 and are convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion price of $12.33.
     The offering was made in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. A portion of the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes will be used to redeem the $100-million principal amount of 8 percent convertible senior notes issued on November 8, 2002. The remaining net proceeds will be used for other general corporate purposes, including working capital.
     The securities to be offered have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or any state securities laws, and unless so registered may not be offered or sold in the United States, except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state securities laws.
CONTACT: Xcel Energy Inc., Minneapolis Investor Relations: R J Kolkmann, 612/215-4559 P A Johnson, 612/215-4535
News media inquiries:
Xcel Energy media relations, 612/215-5300

EXHIBIT 99.04 AGREEMENT AGREEMENT (the "AGREEMENT"), dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among XCEL ENERGY INC., a Minnesota corporation, with headquarters located at 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, MN 55401 (the "COMPANY"), and the entities party hereto (individually, a "BUYER" and collectively, the "BUYERS"). WHEREAS: A. The Company and the Buyers entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2002 (the "PURCHASE AGREEMENT"); B. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Buyers purchased senior convertible notes of the Company (the "FIRST NOTES") in an aggregate principal amount of $100 million; C. The Company consummated a Qualified 144A Offering (as defined in the First Notes) on November 21, 2002, in which the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $230 million of its 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2007 (the "144A NOTES") pursuant to the Indenture between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, dated as of November 21, 2002 (the "INDENTURE"); D. Pursuant to the terms of the First Notes, the Company is now obligated to provide the Buyers with the Company Optional Redemption Consideration (as defined in the First Notes); E. The Company and the Buyers now desire to amend certain of the terms and conditions of the First Notes; F. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributable to such term in the First Notes; NOW THEREFORE, the Company and each Buyer hereby agree that notwithstanding any provision in the First Notes to the contrary, the Company and each Buyer hereby agree as follows: 1. Definitions. (a) The definition of "COMPANY OPTIONAL REDEMPTION DATE" set forth in Section (10)(c)(ii) of the First Notes shall mean November 25, 2002. (b) The definition of "CASH OPTIONAL REDEMPTION CONSIDERATION" set forth in Section 28(b) of the First Notes shall be replaced in its entirety and shall mean each Buyer's pro rata portion of an aggregate amount equal to One Hundred Seven Million Three Hundred Seventy-Two Thousand Six Hundred Two Dollars and Seventy-Four Cents ($107,372,602.74). Upon surrender of its First Notes to the Company or to Company's counsel, each Buyer shall receive on the date hereof the amount set forth opposite such Buyer's name on
Exhibit A attached hereto pursuant to the wire transfer instructions set forth on such Exhibit A. Upon redemption, the parties acknowledge that, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company has no further obligations to issue Notes or Conversion Shares. 2. Non-Cash Optional Redemption Consideration. The parties hereto agree that the following provisions shall apply to the Non-Cash Optional Redemption Consideration required to be delivered by the Company to the Buyers on the date hereof pursuant to the terms of the First Notes: (a) At any time and from time to time on or after the date hereof and on or prior to November 25, 2003 (the "EXERCISE PERIOD"), each of the Buyers shall have the right (the "PURCHASE RIGHT") to purchase up to its pro rata portion (based on the principal amount of First Notes each Buyer purchased in relation to the aggregate principal amount of First Notes issued) of $57.5 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes of the Company (the "BUYER NOTES"), which Buyer Notes and any related indenture (the "BUYER INDENTURE") shall be identical to the 144A Notes and the terms of the Indenture, other than as set forth herein, and the form of such Buyer Notes and any Buyer Indenture to be delivered as set forth in Section 2(e) below. (b) During the Exercise Period, a Buyer may exercise on one occasion or on multiple occasions up to an aggregate of its pro rata portion of the Purchase Right by (i) delivery of a written notice, in the form of the notice attached as Exhibit B hereto or a reasonable facsimile thereof (an "EXERCISE NOTICE"), to the Company of such Buyer's election to exercise its Purchase Right, which Exercise Notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Buyer Notes to be purchased and the date for the closing (a "CLOSING") of such exercise, which date shall be five (5) Business Days after delivery of the Exercise Notice (a "CLOSING DATE"), and (ii) payment to the Company on the Closing Date of an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Buyer Notes to be purchased (the "PURCHASE PRICE") in cash or delivery of a certified check or bank draft payable to the order of the Company or wire transfer of immediately available funds. In the event of any exercise of the rights represented by the Purchase Right in compliance with this Section 2(b), the Company shall on the applicable Closing Date issue and deliver to the address as specified in the Exercise Notice, a Buyer Note or Buyer Notes in such denominations as may be requested by the applicable Buyer in the Exercise Notice, registered in the name of such Buyer or its designee, for the aggregate principal amount of Buyer Notes to which such Buyer shall be entitled upon such exercise. The time of each Closing shall be 10:00 A.M. Central Time, on the applicable Closing Date (or such later time or date as is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Buyer). Each Closing shall occur on the applicable Closing Date at the offices of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP, 919 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022. (c) If the Company shall fail for any reason or for no reason to issue to an exercising Buyer on a Closing Date the Buyer Notes being purchased by such Buyer, the Company shall, in addition to any other remedies available to such Buyer, be required to pay as additional damages for each day after a Closing Date such Buyer Notes are not delivered, interest on the aggregate principal amount of such Buyer Notes at the rate of 12% per annum from the date such Buyer Notes were due until the aggregate principal amount of such Buyer Notes are issued in full. 2
(d) Notwithstanding the requirement of Section 2(a) hereof that the Buyer Notes and any Buyer Indenture be identical to the 144A Notes and the terms of the Indenture, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the following provisions shall apply to the Buyer Notes and any Buyer Indenture: (i) The issuance date of any Buyer Note shall be the date on which such Buyer Note is issued by the Company and the maturity date of any Buyer Note shall be the fifth anniversary thereof; and (ii) The Company shall either (A) provide for registration rights relating to the Buyer Notes in conjunction with the registration rights relating to the 144A Notes or (B) provide similar registration rights by filing a registration statement within 90 days of a Closing Date which registration statement shall be declared effective within 180 days of such Closing Date. (e) The Company agrees to deliver to the Buyers an initial draft of the form of Buyer Notes and any Buyer Indenture within 10 Business Days after the date hereof. Upon receipt of such initial drafts, the Company and the Buyers shall negotiate in good faith the final form of the Buyer Notes and any Buyer Indenture (both of which shall contain terms substantially identical to the 144A Notes and the Indenture) and shall finalize such forms within 30 Business Days of the date hereof. 3. Representations and Warranties. (a) Representations of Buyers. Each Buyer represents and warrants that this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of such Buyer and is a valid and binding agreement of such Buyer enforceable against such Buyer in accordance with its terms, subject as to enforceability to general principles of equity and to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, liquidation and other similar laws relating to, or affecting generally, the enforcement of applicable creditors' rights and remedies. Each Buyer represents that it will acquire the Buyer Notes for its own account for investment only and not with a view towards, or for resale in connection with, the public sale or distribution of the Buyer Notes, except pursuant to sales registered or exempted under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 ACT"); provided, however, that by making the representations herein, such Buyer does not agree to hold any Buyer Notes for any minimum or other specific term and reserves the right to dispose of the Buyer Notes at any time in accordance with or pursuant to a registration statement or an exemption under the 1933 Act. Each Buyer further represents, by acceptance hereof, that, as of this date, such Buyer is an "accredited investor" as such term is defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act. (b) Representations of the Company. The Company represents and warrants to each of the Buyers that: (i) Authorization; Enforcement; Validity. The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Buyer Notes, any Buyer Indenture and each of the other agreements entered into 3
by the parties hereto in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, the "TRANSACTION DOCUMENTS") and to issue the Buyer Notes in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof. The execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents by the Company and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including without limitation the issuance of the Buyer Notes, have been duly authorized by the Company's Board of Directors and no further consent or authorization is required by the Company, its Board of Directors or its stockholders. This Agreement and the other Transaction Documents of even date herewith have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, and constitute the valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity or applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, liquidation or similar laws relating to, or affecting generally, the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies. (ii) Issuance of Buyer Notes. The Buyer Notes are duly authorized and, upon issuance in accordance with the terms hereof, shall be free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof. Assuming the accuracy of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Buyers set forth herein, the issuance by the Company of the Buyer Notes shall be exempt from registration under the 1933 Act. (iii) No Conflicts. The execution, delivery and performance of the Transaction Documents by the Company and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (including, without limitation, the issuance of the Buyer Notes) will not (i) result in a violation of the certificate of incorporation, any certificate of designations, preferences and rights of any outstanding series of preferred stock or bylaws of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or (ii) conflict with, or constitute a default (or an event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become a default) under, or give to others any rights of termination, amendment, acceleration or cancellation of, any material agreement, indenture or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or (iii) result in a violation of any law, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree (including federal and state utilities and securities laws and regulations and the rules and regulations of the Principal Market) applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or by which any property or asset of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or affected. (iv) Consents. The Company is not required to obtain any consent, authorization or order of, or make any filing or registration with, any court, governmental agency or any regulatory or self-regulatory agency or any other Person in order for it to execute, deliver or perform any of its obligations under or contemplated by the Transaction Documents, in each case in accordance with the terms hereof or thereof, except for such consents, authorizations, orders, filings and registrations which have been obtained or effected on or prior to the date hereof. (v) No General Solicitation; No Integrated Offering. Neither the Company, nor any of its affiliates, nor any Person acting on its or their behalf, has engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D under the 1933 Act) in connection with entering into this Agreement or the offer or sale of the Buyer Notes. None of the Company, its subsidiaries, any of their affiliates, and any Person acting on their behalf has, directly or indirectly, made any offers or sales of any security or 4
solicited any offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require registration of the Purchase Right or any of the Buyer Notes under the 1933 Act or cause the entering into of this Agreement or the issuance of the Buyer Notes to be integrated with prior offerings by the Company for purposes of the 1933 Act or any applicable stockholder approval provisions, including, without limitation, under the rules and regulations of any exchange or automated quotation system on which any of the securities of the Company are listed or designated. None of the Company, its subsidiaries, their affiliates and any Person acting on their behalf will take any action or steps referred to in the preceding sentence that would require such registration under the 1933 Act or cause entering into this Agreement or the offering or issuance of the Purchase Right or the Buyer Notes to be integrated with other offerings. 4. Miscellaneous. (a) Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Jury Trial. All questions concerning the construction, validity, enforcement and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of Illinois, without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Illinois or any other jurisdictions) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdictions other than the State of Illinois. Each party hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts sitting in the City of Chicago for the adjudication of any dispute hereunder or in connection herewith or with any transaction contemplated hereby or discussed herein, and hereby irrevocably waives, and agrees not to assert in any suit, action or proceeding, any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, that such suit, action or proceeding is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper. Each party hereby irrevocably waives personal service of process and consents to process being served in any such suit, action or proceeding by mailing a copy thereof to such party at the address for such notices to it under this Agreement and agrees that such service shall constitute good and sufficient service of process and notice thereof. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to limit in any way any right to serve process in any manner permitted by law. EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE, AND AGREES NOT TO REQUEST, A JURY TRIAL FOR THE ADJUDICATION OF ANY DISPUTE HEREUNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. (b) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more identical counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each party and delivered to the other party; provided that a facsimile signature shall be considered due execution and shall be binding upon the signatory thereto with the same force and effect as if the signature were an original, not a facsimile signature. (c) Severability. If any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of this Agreement in that jurisdiction or the validity or enforceability of any provision of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. 5
(d) Amendments. No provision of this Agreement may be amended other than by an instrument in writing signed by the Company and the Buyers, and no provision hereof may be waived other than by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. No such amendment shall be effective to the extent that it applies to less than all of the Buyers. No consideration shall be offered or paid to any Person to amend or consent to a waiver or modification of any provision of any of the Transaction Documents unless the same consideration also is offered to all of the parties to the Transaction Documents. (e) Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors and assigns. (f) Further Assurances. Each party shall do and perform, or cause to be done and performed, all such further acts and things, and shall execute and deliver all such other agreements, certificates, instruments and documents, as the other party may reasonably request in order to carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank.] 6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Buyer and the Company have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above. COMPANY: BUYERS: XCEL ENERGY INC. CITADEL EQUITY FUND LTD. By: Citadel Limited Partnership, Portfolio Manager By: GLB Partners, L.P., its General Partner By: Citadel Investment Group, L.L.C., its General Partner By:_______________________ Name: Title: By:_______________________________________________ Name: Kenneth A. Simpler Title: Managing Director CITADEL CREDIT TRADING LTD. By: Citadel Limited Partnership, Portfolio Manager By: GLB Partners, L.P., its General Partner By: Citadel Investment Group, L.L.C., its General Partner By:__________________________________________ Name: Kenneth A. Simpler Title: Managing Director JACKSON INVESTMENT FUND LTD. By: Citadel Limited Partnership, Portfolio Manager By: GLB Partners, L.P., its General Partner By: Citadel Investment Group, L.L.C., its General Partner By:__________________________________________ Name: Kenneth A. Simpler Title: Managing Director 7
EXHIBIT A SCHEDULE OF BUYERS
EXHIBIT B EXERCISE NOTICE XCEL ENERGY INC. The undersigned holder hereby exercises the right to purchase an aggregate principal amount of $_________ of the 7 1/2% Convertible Senior Notes (the "BUYER NOTES") of Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "COMPANY"), pursuant to the Purchase Right granted to the undersigned in that certain agreement dated as of November 25, 2002 by and among the Company, the undersigned and the other parties thereto (the "AGREEMENT"). The Closing Date (as defined in the Agreement) shall be ______, __ 200_. Please issue the Buyer Notes being purchased hereunder in the following name(s) and denominations: - ------------------------- - ------------------------- - ------------------------- Please deliver the Buyer Notes to the following address: - ------------------------- - ------------------------- - ------------------------- Date: _______________ __, 200_ Name of Buyer: _____________________ By:________________________________ Name:_____________________________ Title:______________________________


