FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20031219172923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
Since mid-2002, NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG), a former wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy in the business of independent power production, has experienced severe financial difficulties, resulting primarily from lower prices for power and declining credit ratings. These financial difficulties culminated in NRG and certain of its affiliates filing, on May 14, 2003, voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt.
NRG's filing included its plan of reorganization and the terms of the overall settlement among NRG, Xcel Energy and members of NRG's major creditor constituencies that provide for payments by Xcel Energy to NRG and its creditors of up to $752 million.
NRG's creditors and the bankruptcy court approved the plan of reorganization and on Dec. 5, 2003, NRG completed reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the reorganization, Xcel Energy completely divested its ownership interest in NRG, which in turn issued new common equity to its creditors. The other principal terms of the overall settlement include the following:
As of Dec. 31, 2002, NRG had consolidated assets of $10.9 billion and liabilities of $11.6 billion, including entities included in and excluded from the bankruptcy filing.
See additional information in the pro-forma financial statements filed as exhibit 99.01.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 19, 2003

 
Exhibit 99.01
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, emerged from bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on Dec. 5, 2003. As part of the settlement agreement approved by the Bankruptcy Court among Xcel Energy, NRG and NRG's creditors ("the Settlement"), Xcel Energy has divested all ownership interests in NRG as of the emergence date.
The following summary of unaudited pro-forma financial information for Xcel Energy gives effect to the divestiture of NRG, including events directly attributable to the transaction. This unaudited pro-forma summarized financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and related notes of Xcel Energy, which are included in the 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the Sept. 30, 2003, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The unaudited pro-forma Statements of Operations information for the year-to-date period ended Sept. 30, 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2002, assume that NRG had been divested on Jan. 1, 2002, the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro-forma Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2003 assumes that NRG had been divested on that date.
These summarized pro-forma amounts do not include the future financial impacts that may occur from NRG's filing for bankruptcy, or from implementing the Settlement. Also, the unaudited summarized pro-forma financial information does not necessarily indicate what Xcel Energy's financial position or operating results would have been if NRG had been divested in the periods presented, and does not necessarily indicate future operating results of Xcel Energy (with or without NRG).
 
XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Pro-Forma Consolidated Statements Of Operations (Thousands of Dollars, Except Per Share Data) For the Nine Months ended Sept. 30, 2003
See accompanying Notes to Pro-Forma Financial Information
 
XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Pro-forma Consolidated Statements Of Operations (Thousands of Dollars, Except Per Share Data) For the year ended December 31, 2002
See accompanying Notes to Pro-forma Financial Information
 
XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet (Thousands of Dollars, Except Per Share Data)
See accompanying Notes to Pro-Forma Financial Information.
 
The following notes provide additional information for the adjustments made to historical financial statements in determining the accompanying pro-forma financial information.


