FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20030924145854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
On Sept. 24, 2003, Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the Minnesota Office of the Attorney General announced that they have reached a settlement agreement addressing issues stemming from an investigation into power outage reporting in Minnesota. For more information see the press release attached as exhibit 99.01.
On Sept. 24, 2003, Xcel Energy also reaffirmed its guidance for pro-forma earning per share (EPS) from continuing operations for 2003, as detailed in the following table. The guidance contains financial measures, which are not based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). It includes a pro-forma forecast of earnings from continuing operations for 2003 that does not include NRG impacts, various tax benefits associated with Xcel Energy's investment in NRG and settlement agreement with NRG and its creditors or the gain on the sale of Viking Gas. This guidance has adjusted GAAP earnings guidance to reflect the impact of historic and expected future events, which management believes to be more indicative of future earnings performance. A reconciliation to GAAP earnings per share is included in the table.
This report includes forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements include statements that are intended to be identified in this document by the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "projected," "forecast," "objective," "outlook," "possible," "potential" and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit, actions of rating agencies and their impact on access to capital; business conditions in the energy industry; competitive factors; unusual weather; changes in federal or state legislation; regulation; risks associated with the California power market; currency translation and transaction adjustments; the higher degree of risk associated with Xcel Energy's nonregulated businesses compared with Xcel Energy's regulated business; risks related to the financial condition of NRG; actions by the New York bankruptcy court; the failure to realize expectations regarding the NRG settlement agreement; actions by regulators, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA); and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the SEC, including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energy's report on Form 10-K for year 2002.
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
September 24, 2003

 
Exhibit 99.01
Sept. 24, 2003
     MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy, the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the Minnesota Office of the Attorney General have reached a settlement agreement addressing issues stemming from an investigation into power outage reporting in Minnesota.
     The agreement today will be submitted for approval to the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission, which ordered the investigation following allegations that Xcel Energy altered records to shorten the duration of outages reported to the commission.
     Pat Vincent, president of Xcel Energy's Customer and Field Operations business unitsaid, "We take very seriously the reporting of reliable data and were troubled by the allegations of insufficient documentation and inaccurate reporting. I'm pleased that this agreement brings resolution of this issue, subject to the approval of the commission.
,
     "Service reliability has been and remains a company priority," Vincent said. "The provisions of today's agreement will clarify the regulatory reporting standards and provide for additional customer-response measures."
     The Commerce Department and Attorney General's Office retained Fraudwise, an independent accounting and consulting company, to examine Xcel Energy's outage records. Since Fraudwise issued its final report on Aug. 1, representatives of Xcel Energy and the state agencies have been addressing the issues raised in the report.
 
- Page 2 of 2, Settlement Agreement -
     Among the agreement's key provisions:
     Vincent said Xcel Energy also has agreed to establish an ombudsperson position for customers affected by repeat outages and to hold meetings in areas with frequent outages.
     "We have many dedicated employees, and we are committed to improving service quality and customer communications related to outages," she said. "We understand the impact outages have on our customers. In addition to actions to reduce outages, we will work to provide better, more direct communications to help increase customer satisfaction."
     The settlement agreement is posted on Xcel Energy's Web site at www.xcelenergy.com


