FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20040114172133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
     Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) announced today a definitive agreement to sell its Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power electricity and natural gas operations to Black Hills Corp. (NYSE: BKH), pending regulatory approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Wyoming Public Service Commission.
See additional information in the Press Release filed as exhibit 99.01.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 14, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.01
January 13, 2004
     MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) announced today a definitive agreement to sell its Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power (CLF&P) electricity and natural gas operations to Black Hills Corp. (NYSE: BKH), pending regulatory approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Wyoming Public Service Commission.
     Xcel Energy is expected to record a one-time gain of approximately 1 cent per share upon completion of the transaction. CLF&P contributed less than 1 cent per share to Xcel Energy's annual earnings. No other financial information is being disclosed at this time.
     "Cheyenne Light Fuel & Power has been an important part of our system for many years. This change in ownership will be largely transparent to the customer. Black Hills is a highly regarded utility and will continue to offer quality service to customers in the area," said Richard C. Kelly, Xcel Energy president and chief operating officer.
     CLF&P serves approximately 38,000 electricity customers and 30,000 natural gas customers in Cheyenne and several surrounding communities in southeastern Wyoming. CLF&P was acquired by Public Service Co. of Colorado, a predecessor of Xcel Energy, in October 1923.
     Xcel Energy is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company, with operations in 11 western and Midwestern states. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.2 million electricity customers and 1.7 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies. In terms of customers, it is the fourth-largest combination natural gas and electricity company in the nation. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at www.xcelenergy.com .
 
Xcel Energy announces agreement to sell CLF&P Pg. 2 of 2
For further information, contact:
Xcel Energy Investor Relations:
          -      Dick Kolkmann, (612) 215-4559
          -      or Paul Johnson, (612) 215-4535
Media Relations (Denver):
          -     (303) 294-2300
This news release may contain statements, which constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act). All such forward-looking statements are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the Reform Act. A number of important factors affecting the business and financial results of the Company could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the effects of regulation, changes in capital requirements and funding, resolution of pending litigation, acquisitions, and competition.


