FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20040128161134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
Xcel Energy Inc. announced its non-utility natural gas marketing and trading subsidiary, e prime inc., has reached a settlement agreement with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to allegations that e prime submitted inaccurate information to industry publications.
See additional information in the Press Release filed as exhibit 99.01.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 28, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.01
Jan. 28, 2004
     DENVER  Xcel Energy (NYSE:XEL) said today its non-utility natural gas marketing and trading subsidiary  e prime inc.  has reached a settlement agreement with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to allegations that e prime submitted inaccurate information to industry publications.
     Xcel Energy had previously disclosed the CFTC's investigation. Without admitting or denying the CFTC's findings, e prime inc. agreed to pay $16 million to settle the matter. The CFTC order resolving the matter recognized Xcel Energy's cooperation in the commission's investigation. Xcel Energy officials pledged to continue cooperating.
     In June 2003, e prime inc. announced it had terminated or accepted resignations from four employees and that it had suspended two employees pending completion of the CFTC investigation. In November 2003, Xcel Energy accepted the resignations of the remaining suspended employees.
     A number of other energy companies previously settled similar CFTC allegations in amounts ranging from $3 million to $28 million.
     Xcel Energy believes none of e prime's reporting to industry publications had any effect on the financial accounting treatment of any transaction reported in its books and records. The company's investigation indicated there were no similar issues with electricity trading reporting.
     e prime inc., which was formed in 1995, is in the process of shutting down operations. Prior to employee disciplinary actions stemming from the CFTC investigation, e prime inc. had 32 employees. As part of Xcel Energy's decision to exit the natural gas merchant business, e prime inc. has severed all but four of its employees.
 
     Xcel Energy is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company with regulated operations in 11 Western and Midwestern states. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.3 million electricity customers and 1.7 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies. In terms of customers, it is the fourth-largest combination natural gas and electricity company in the nation. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at www.xcelenergy.com.
For further information, contact:
Xcel Energy Investor Relations Dick Kolkmann, 612-215-4559 Paul Johnson, 612-215-4535
Media Relations, Denver: 303-294-2300


