FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20050427072718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
                                                                                              
April 27, 2005
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 27, 2005, Xcel Energy released earnings results for the first quarter of 2005.  The release contains material, non-public information.
 
See additional information in the Earnings Release furnished as exhibit 99.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
April 27, 2005

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
April 27, 2005
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy Inc. (NYSE: XEL) announced income from continuing operations of $126 million, or 30 cents per share on a diluted basis, for the first quarter of 2005 compared with $149 million, or 36 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2004.
 
Total earnings for the quarter, which include the impact of discontinued operations, were $121 million, or 29 cents per share, in 2005, compared with $150 million, or 36 cents per share, in 2004.
 
Xcel Energy's total earnings for the first quarter of 2005 included the following:
 - 
                 
Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were $135 million, or 32 cents per share, compared with $158 million, or 37 cents per share, in 2004;
 - 
                 
Nonregulated subsidiary and holding company losses from continuing operations were 2 cents per share, compared with a loss of 1 cent per share in 2004; and
 - 
                 
Results from discontinued operations were losses of $4 million, or 1 cent per share, compared with income of $0.8 million, or 0 cents per share, in 2004.
 
Earnings for the first quarter of 2005 declined largely due to lower short-term wholesale margins, higher depreciation expense and higher utility operating and maintenance expenses. In addition, retail electric sales were lower than anticipated.
 
"The decline in earnings from 2004 was anticipated, with the exception of the impact of weather and lower-than-projected sales," said Richard C. Kelly, president and chief operating officer.  "In last year's first quarter, we benefited from a $17 million power sale to another utility and an extra day in the quarter for leap year.  This year we had a scheduled refueling outage and 10-year inspection at our Monticello nuclear unit, resulting in additional costs and less availability of low-cost energy to sell into the market during the quarter.  We are maintaining our 2005 earnings guidance of $1.18 to $1.28 per share from continuing operations."
 
At 9 a.m. CDT today, Xcel Energy will host a conference call to review first quarter financial results.  To participate in the conference call, please dial in five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start and follow the operator's instructions.
 
 
The conference call also will be simultaneously broadcast and archived on Xcel Energy's Web site at www.xcelenergy.com.  To access the presentation, click on Investor Information.  If you are unable to participate in the live event, the call will be available for replay from 12 p.m. CDT on April 27 through 11:59 p.m. CDT on April 30.
 
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "objective," "outlook," "plan," "project," "possible," "potential," "should" and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; the higher risk associated with Xcel Energy's nonregulated businesses compared with its regulated businesses; effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; risks associated with the California power market; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004.
 
 
For news media inquiries only, please call Xcel Energy media relations   (612) 215-5300
Xcel Energy Internet address: www.xcelenergy.com
 
 
 
 
Notes to Investor Relations Release (Unaudited)
 
Due to the seasonality of Xcel Energy's operating results, quarterly financial results are not an appropriate base from which to project annual results.
 
Note 1.  Earnings per Share Summary
 
The following table summarizes the earnings-per-share contributions of Xcel Energy's businesses.
 
 
The following table summarizes significant components contributing to the changes in the first quarter of 2005 earnings per share compared with the same period in 2004, which are discussed in more detail later in the release.
 
 
Note 2.  Regulated Utility Segment Results  Continuing Operations
 
The following summarizes the estimated impact of temperature variations on utility results included in continuing operations, compared with sales under normal weather conditions.
Estimated Impact of Temperature Changes on Regulated Earnings
 
 
 The following table summarizes Xcel Energy's regulated utility growth from continuing operations for actual and weather-normalized energy sales for the three-month period ended March 31, 2005, compared with the same period in 2004.
Sales Growth
 
 
The weather-adjusted retail electric sales growth of 0.5 percent reflects the impact of a leap year in 2004, which provided an extra day of sales in the first quarter of 2004.  Weather-adjusted growth would have been approximately 1.5 percent after adjusting for the impact of leap year by removing the extra day of sales in the first quarter of 2004.
 
The following table details the changes in revenues, costs and margins (including the trading activity that is reported net on the income statement) from Xcel Energy's electric utility, short-term wholesale and commodity trading operations that are included in continuing operations:
Base Electric Utility, Short-term Wholesale and
Commodity Trading Margins
 
 
Note  The short-term wholesale and commodity trading results in the above table reflect the estimated impacts of the regulatory sharing of certain margins.
 
Base electric utility margins, which are primarily derived from retail customer sales, increased approximately $10 million for the first quarter of 2005, compared with the first quarter of 2004.  The increased base electric margin reflects weather-normalized sales growth, lower costs that are not recovered through regulatory mechanisms and
 
higher capacity margins at Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), partially offset by increased purchased capacity costs mainly at PSCo.  For more information see the following table:
 
Base Electric Utility Margin
 
 
Short-term wholesale margins consist of energy-related purchase and sales activity and the use of certain financial instruments associated with the fuel required for and energy produced from Xcel Energy's generation assets and energy and capacity purchased to serve native load.  Commodity trading margins are not associated with Xcel Energy's generation assets or the capacity and energy purchased to serve native load.  Short-term wholesale and commodity trading margins decreased approximately $26 million during the first quarter of 2005.  First quarter 2004 short-term wholesale results reflect the impact of higher trading volumes and a preexisting contract, which contributed $17 million in the first quarter of 2004 and expired at that time.
 
 Other operating and maintenance expenses for the first quarter of 2005 increased by approximately $9 million, or 2.2 percent, compared with the same period in 2004.  The increase is primarily due to a nuclear plant refueling and 10-year inspection outage in 2005, with no comparable outage in 2004, which increased costs by approximately $20 million.  In addition, pension and medical costs were approximately $7 million higher in 2005 than 2004. The increases were partially offset by lower maintenance costs at the fossil-fuel plants of approximately $8 million and lower incentive compensation and 401(k) costs of approximately $11 million.
Other Operating and Maintenance Expenses  Utility
 
 Depreciation and amortization expense increased by approximately $22 million, or 13.1 percent, for the first quarter of 2005, when compared with the first quarter of 2004.  This change was primarily due to the installation of new steam generators at the Prairie Island nuclear plant and software additions placed in service late in 2004 or early in 2005.
Depreciation and Amortization
 
 Income taxes for continuing operations decreased by $27 million for the first quarter of 2005 compared with the same period in 2004.  The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 26.6 percent for the first quarter of 2005, compared with 32.7 percent for the same period in 2004.  The decreases were due to a decrease in pretax income and plant-related permanent taxable income adjustments and an increase in research and development tax credits.
Income taxes
 
Note 3. Discontinued Operations
 
Results from discontinued operations were a loss of 1 cent per share for the first quarter of 2005.  In March 2005, Xcel Energy agreed to sell its non-regulated subsidiary, Utility Engineering Corp. (UE) to Zachry Group, Inc.  In April 2005, Zachry acquired all of the outstanding shares of UE.  Quixx Corp., a subsidiary of UE that partners in cogeneration projects, was not included in the transaction.  Xcel Energy recorded an immaterial loss in the first quarter of 2005 on the transaction.
 
Note 4.  Xcel Energy Capital Structure
 
Following is the preliminary capital structure of Xcel Energy at March 31, 2005:
 
 
billion, with NSP-Minnesota comprising $375 million, PSCo comprising $500 million and SPS comprising $250 million.  Each credit facility has one financial covenant requiring that the debt to total capitalization ratio of each entity be less than or equal to 65 percent.  The facilities closed on April 21, 2005.
Xcel Energy has renewed the credit facilities of its operating utility companies.  Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, (NSP-Minnesota), PSCo and Southwestern Public Service (SPS) each have individual 5-year, unsecured, credit facilities.  The combined size of the facilities is $1.125
 
Note 6.  Rates and Regulation
 
On Sept. 17, 2004, NSP-Minnesota filed with the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) for a $9.9 million annual increase in natural gas distribution rates, an overall increase of 1.7 percent.  The return on equity requested was 11.5 percent.  Interim rates, subject to refund, of $6.4 million were placed in effect on Dec. 1, 2004.
NSP-Minnesota Natural Gas Rate Case -
 
On April 19, 2005, NSP-Minnesota and the Department of Commerce filed with an administrative law judge and the MPUC an offer of settlement related to the natural gas rate case.  The settlement agreement includes an annual rate increase of $5.8 million, based on a return on equity of 10.4 percent.  The settlement also reflects an increase in the residential customer charge from $6.50 to $8.00 per month.  Other parties to the proceeding may file surrebuttal testimony by April 29, 2005, and hearings are expected to be held in early May.  The settlement agreement is subject to the approval of the MPUC, which is expected to act in this proceeding in August 2005.
 
Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered in Texas through a fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor.  In May 2004, SPS filed with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) its periodic request for fuel and purchased power cost recovery for electric generation and fuel management activities for the period from January 2002 through December 2003.  SPS requested approval of approximately $580 million of Texas-jurisdictional fuel and purchased power costs for the two-year period.  Intervenor and PUCT staff testimony was filed in October 2004 and hearings were held in December 2004.  Intervenor testimony contained objections to SPS' methodology for assigning average fuel costs to wholesale sales, among other things.  Recovery of $49 million to $86 million of the requested amount was contested by multiple intervenors. 
Texas Retail Fuel Cost (SPS)
 
 
In January 2005, SPS filed its post-hearing briefs disputing the intervenor objections.  The administrative law judge issued his recommended proposal for the decision (PFD) on April 15, 2005, which was generally favorable to SPS.  Prior to issuance of the PFD, SPS had entered into a non-unanimous stipulation with the PUCT staff and several of the intervenors.  The stipulation would provide reasonable regulatory certainty for SPS on all key issues raised in this proceeding.  Certain intervenors, although not presently signatories to the non-unanimous stipulation, are expected to file agreement with the majority of the stipulation principles, while opposing certain other provisions.  If the PUCT does not approve the
 
filed stipulation without modification, SPS, as well as the other signatories have the option of withdrawing from the stipulation. If one or more signatories withdraw from the stipulation, the PUCT could revert to the consideration of the PFD or continue consideration of the non-unanimous stipulation with the remaining signatories.  It is uncertain as to whether the PUCT will approve the stipulation or will adopt any or all of the administrative law judge's recommendations contained in the PFD. The settlement reflects a potential liability of approximately $25 million, which is consistent with the reserve that SPS accrued during the fourth quarter of 2004 related to this proceeding.  SPS believes this estimate is appropriate and sufficient, if either the stipulation is accepted or if a litigated outcome develops.  A PUCT decision is expected in late May 2005.
 
Note 7.  Capital Expenditure Forecast Update
 
The following is the consolidated Xcel Energy capital expenditure forecast:
 
 
*Minnesota emissions reduction project
 
The following is an update of the capital expenditure forecast for each of the utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy:
 
 
Note:  The capital forecast does not reflect any potential expenditures for the recently issued regulations referred to as the clear air interstate and mercury rules.
 
Note 8.  Xcel Energy Earnings Guidance
 
2005 Earnings Guidance
Xcel Energy's 2005 earnings per share from continuing operations guidance and key assumptions are detailed in the following table.
 
 
Key Assumptions for 2005
:
Seren is held for sale and accounted for as discontinued operations;
 - 
                 
Normal weather patterns are experienced;
 - 
                 
Weather-adjusted retail electric utility sales growth of approximately 1.6 percent to 2.0 percent;
 - 
                 
Weather-adjusted retail natural gas utility sales growth of approximately 1.0 percent to 1.3 percent;
 - 
                 
The NSP-Minnesota gas rate case settlement is approved;
 - 
                 
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rate case is successfully completed;
 - 
                 
Capacity costs increase of $15 million, net of capacity cost recovery;
 - 
                 
No additional margin impact results from the fuel allocation issue at SPS;
 - 
                 
Short-term wholesale and commodity trading margins decline by approximately $30 million to $55 million from 2004;
 - 
                 
Other utility operating and maintenance expense increases between 2 percent and 3 percent from 2004;
 - 
                 
Depreciation expense increases approximately 7 percent to 8 percent from 2004;
 - 
                 
Interest expense increases approximately $10 million to $15 million from 2004;
 - 
                 
Allowance for funds used during construction-equity is relatively flat;
 - 
                 
Xcel Energy continues to recognize corporate-owned life insurance tax benefits of 9 cents per share;
 - 
                 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations is approximately 27 percent to 30 percent; and
 - 
                 
Average common stock and equivalents total approximately 426 million shares, based on the "If Converted" method for convertible notes.
 - 
                 
 
 
 


