FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20070530164109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)     
May 23, 2007
Xcel Energy Inc.
Minnesota
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
      612-330-5500
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On May 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of Xcel Energy Inc. (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change-in Control Policy (the "Policy") to add, effective June 1, 2007, Mr. Paul J. Bonavia, President, Utilities Group, as a participant solely with respect to change-in control benefits.  As previously disclosed, each of the Company's named executive officers other than Mr. Bonavia were already participants in the Policy.  Mr. Bonavia, however, had a separate employment agreement and change-in control agreement.  In connection with his addition as a participant in the Policy, Mr. Bonavia's change-in-control agreement was terminated, effective June 1, 2007, and his employment agreement was amended, effective June 1, 2007, to reflect that change-in-control benefits would be paid under the Policy instead of through his change-in-control agreement.  Copies of the amendment to the Policy and Mr. Bonavia's employment agreement are filed as exhibits 10.01 and 10.02 to this Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein.
As a participant in the Policy, if Mr. Bonavia is terminated (other than for cause, disability, death or voluntary retirement), including a voluntary termination following a diminution in salary, benefits or responsibilities, within two years following a change in control (as defined in the Policy), Mr. Bonavia would be entitled to receive:
a cash payment equal to three times his annual base salary and target annual incentive award;
      
prorated target annual incentive compensation for the year of termination;
      
a cash payment of approximately $30,000 for outplacement services;
      
a cash payment equal to the value of the additional amounts that would have been credited to or paid on his behalf under pension and retirement savings plans if he had remained employed for another three years;
      
continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits for three years; and
      
continued perquisite allowance for three years.
      
In addition, Mr. Bonavia would be entitled to receive an additional cash payment to make him whole for any excise tax on excess parachute payments that he may incur, with certain limitations specified in the Policy.
Under the terms of his amended employment agreement, upon termination following a change-in-control, Mr. Bonavia would be entitled to receive the greater of the payments under the Policy described above or the payments he would be entitled to receive under his employment agreement.
The Policy and Mr. Bonavia's employment agreement have previously been filed as exhibits 10.10 to the Form S-4 Registration Statement (333-112032) of Southwestern Public Service Company, exhibit 10.39 to Xcel Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and exhibit 10.25 to Xcel Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004.
2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibit
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 30, 2007
3

Exhibit 10.01
Second Amendment
is made this 22nd day of May, 2007, by Xcel Energy Inc. (the "Principal Sponsor").
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT
WITNESSETH:
, the Principal Sponsor maintains the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change-In-Control Policy (the "Policy"), and
WHEREAS
, the Board of Directors of the Principal Sponsor (the "Board")has reserved the right to make amendments to the Policy, and
WHEREAS
in accordance with the requirements under Section 3.1 of the Policy, the Board may authorize an amendment to the Policy to add any Participant; and
WHEREAS,
the Board wishes to amend the Policy in certain respects effective January 1, 2007, to add Paul J. Bonavia as a Participant, but only for purposes of the Change in Control provisions of the Policy.
WHEREAS,
, the Board hereby amends the Policy effective June 1, 2007, as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
, ,as attached to and made a part of the Policy, is hereby amended, effective June 1, 2007, as follows:
1.
              
SCHEDULE I
Participants
Schedule I
Participants
 
*              Paul Bonavia shall not be a Participant in the Policy for purposes of entitlement to Separation Benefits in accordance with Section 4.3 by reason of
ceasing to be an Employee in circumstances as provided in Section 4.2(a), but shall be a Participant for purposes of the remaining provisions of the Policy.
2.
              
Article VIII
MISCELLANEOUS
is amended by the addition of new Section 8.6, to read as follows:
.The provisions of this Policy are not intended, and should not be construed to be legal, business or tax advice.  The Company, Participants and any other party having any interest herein are hereby informed that the U.S. federal tax advice contained in this document (if any) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to any party any transaction or matter addressed herein.
Sec. 8.6
    
Tax Penalty Avoidance
3.
             
Savings Clause. 
Except as hereinabove set forth, the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change-In-Control Policy shall continue in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Xcel Energy Inc. has caused this instrument to be enacted by its duly authorized officer as of the date set forth to be effective June 1, 2007.
 

Exhibit 10.02
AMENDMENT FOUR  To Employment Agreement Between
This Amendment Four is an amendment to the Employment Agreement ("Agreement") between Xcel Energy Inc., as successor to New Century Energies, Inc., and Paul J. Bonavia ("Participant"). Said Agreement was first effective December 15, 1997, and later amended with the First, Second and Third Amendments thereto, and is now amended further with the following Amendment Four:
is hereby amended by substituting the followingfor the introductory paragraphas it appears therein (while retaining all of the remainder of said Section 7.1):
1.
              
Section 7.1 Termination for Good Reason,
introductory paragraph
"Good Reason" means the occurrence, on or after the date of a Change in Control(as that term is defined in the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change in Control Policy), of one or more of the following events or circumstances, as determined in good faith by the Executive:
is hereby amended by substituting the following for the last sentence thereof:
2.
Section 7.3 Termination for Cause,
             
"Termination for Cause" shall mean the termination of Executive's employment by the Company because of Executive's fraud or dishonesty which has resulted, or is likely to result, in material economic damage to the Company, as determined in good faith by a vote of two-thirds of the non-employee directors at a meeting of the Company's Board of Directors at which Executive has been afforded an opportunity to be heard."
is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
3.
Section 7.4  Termination After Change in Control,
             
In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change in Control Policy), the Executive shall be entitled to the greater of: (a) the payment he would otherwise be entitled to receive for the remaining term of employment under this Agreement; or (b) those payments provided under the Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change in Control Policy.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment Four to the Agreement, effective June 1, 2007.
 


